<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Black-Squirrel</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="blk-squirrel.label">
  <span id="page65b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="65b"/>
  <h1 id="blk-squirrel.label">Black-Squirrel</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate6.xhtml#b">Plate <span title="six b">VI.b</span></a>, <a href="photo5.xhtml">Photo 5</a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Sciurus niger</span> [Linnæus, <time>1758</time>]</li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;This is a little larger than the migratory squirrel.
It is all over jet-black, with the exception of a few whitish hairs on the under surface.
The fur is very soft and glossy; the hairs on the back are not annulated,
as in <span class="taxon">Sciurus migratorius</span>. There are no varieties in color.</p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p>This species is considered by some naturalists to be a variety
of the migratory squirrel; and it possibly may be so. It has not
<span id="page66" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="66"/>
been seen to breed with this squirrel, however; and, if only a
variety in color, it is a remarkably permanent one in a species
so variable. Some of its habits seem to differ from those of the
other, though they are mostly the same.</p>
    <p>The black-squirrel has been observed through the Middle States,
in Michigan and Wisconsin; and Audubon and Bachman speak of
specimens received from Lake Superior. I have seen them from
Indiana in the Chicago market, and have shot some in Northern
Illinois. It appears to be nowhere a common species; and all hunters
agree that it disappears before the migratory squirrel, which is
said to drive it off.</p>
    <p>In Northern Illinois, I have always observed this squirrel in swamps
or low river &#8220;bottoms,&#8221; and never in the high prairie groves, where
the migratory squirrel is sometimes abundant. It is worthy of
remark that it sometimes appears to love the vicinity of rivers or
ponds of water.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>The squirrel the author is referencing is a melanistic morph of either the species described earlier as the Large-Tailed Fox-Squirrel (<a href="large-tailed-fox-squirrel.xhtml">page 55b</a>, now known as the Western Fox Squirrel) and/or the species described earlier as the Migratory Squirrel (<a href="migratory-squirrel.xhtml">page 62b</a>, now known as the Eastern Gray Squirrel).</p>
    <p>The mutated allele responsible for melanism in both species appears to have first evolved within the Fox Squirrel complex and was then introgressed into the Eastern Gray Squirrel complex through a hybrid event. See <a href="https://www.smithsonianmag.com/smart-news/interspecies-breeding-responsible-some-squirrels-black-coloring-180972921/" title="Internet Resource">Smithsonian Magazine: Interspecies Breeding Is Responsible for Some Squirrels’ Black Coloring</a>.</p>
    <p>There are two things to note:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>In his account of the Migratory Squirrel, the author does reference a black variety of that squirrel, and that both color forms can come from the same litter. That matches how a <a href="https://www.genome.gov/genetics-glossary/Mendelian-Inheritance" title="Internet Resource">Simple Mendelian Inheritance</a> (Internet Link) melanistic allele would work.</li>
      <li>In this species account of the author’s Black Squirrel, the author mentions that they are larger than the Migratory Squirrel.</li>
    </ol>
    <p></p>
    <p>Both of those considerations lead me to believe that this species account <em>probably</em> references a melanistic form of the Western Fox Squirrel.</p>
    <p>When you come across a melanistic squirrel, which species it belongs to can be very difficult to identify visually without catching the animal.</p>
    <p>Look around to see if there are any non-melanistic squirrels in the area. If there are and they are all the same species, then the melanistic squirrel <em>likely</em> is that species as well. If both species are in the area, well, just enjoy what you saw without an exact identification.</p>
    <p>Unfortunately both species have been introduced into locations where they are not originally from so the use of a range map can be very unreliable, identifying other non-melanistic squirrels in the population is your best bet.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>