<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Striped Ground Squirrel, or Chipmuck</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chipmuck.label">
  <span id="page70b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="70b"/>
  <h1 id="chipmuck.label">Striped Ground Squirrel, or Chipmuck</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate8.xhtml#a">Plate <span title="seven a">VIII.a</span></a>, <a href="photo9.xhtml">Photo 9</a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Tamias striatus</span> [Linnæus, <time>1758</time>]</li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;<span role="list"><span role="listitem">Length
of head and body of the adult male, in summer, 6&#8541; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">vertebræ of tail, 4&#8542; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail to tip of longest hair, 5&#8541; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">breadth of tail, hairs in natural position, &#8541; inch.</span></span>
<span role="list"><span role="listitem">Upper parts brownish-gray, yellowish on the sides;</span>
  <span role="listitem">two light yellow and four black lines on the back;</span>
  <span role="listitem">the rump bright brown;</span>
  <span role="listitem">belly white;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail not bushy nor flat, as in the true squirrels.</span>
</span></p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">This beautiful and familiar little animal, with several other
species, compose the genus <span class="taxon">Tamias</span>. Though closely related to the
<span id="page71" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="71"/>
true squirrels, they differ in habits and organization from their
larger kindred, to suit their life on the ground.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
All the ground
squirrels are of small size, living in burrows in the earth, and not
habitually climbing trees. Their form is adapted to running on
the ground and burrowing. They have capacious cheek-pouches, in
which they carry large quantities of food to store up for winter
provisions.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The chipmuck exists throughout the Eastern, Middle, as well
as in some of the Western States, and as far north as latitude
fifty degrees in the British Possessions. It is found in Minnesota,
Iowa, and rarely, in Northern Missouri.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
I did not observe this
species in the heavily timbered districts of Southern Illinois, and
Colonel Ashley, of Jonesborough, informs me, it is rare, if found at
all, in the southern part of the State. Though abundant in the
prairie regions of Illinois, this species never leaves the woods.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It
is well known to every farmer living within its habitat, under the
name of
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Striped Ground Squirrel,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Chipping Squirrel,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">or &#8220;Chipmuck.&#8221;</span>
</span>
Audubon and Bachman say it is called &#8220;Hackee&#8221; at
the East; but I have never heard that name applied to it here.</span></p>
    <p>Wherever it abounds, the chipmuck attracts attention by its
beauty, industrious habits, and cheerful activity. Not being a tree
climber&#8212;and, in fact, preferring somewhat open ground to deep
woods&#8212;nor fearing the neighborhood of man, it is found most
abundantly burrowing under stumps, logs, or fences about cultivated
land, and seems rather to increase than diminish in numbers, as the
forests it inhabits are cleared for cultivation.</p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">In spring and summer, chipmucks make love, rear their young,
chase each other over the stumps and logs, in play, and enjoy themselves
in various other ways; and with autumn and its harvest-time
comes their season of hard work. We are not to suppose, however,
that this work is at all disagreeable to them, as man’s duties are to
him, when he will not cheerfully obey the laws of creation.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
They
may now be seen hastening to and from their holes, their cheek-pouches
distended with nuts, acorns, and seeds, or with grain stolen
from the neighboring fields. Thus they continue to collect food till
cold weather has set in, when they retire to their burrows, where,
with well filled larders, they pass the winter comfortably, regardless
of the cold winds which rage above them.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
This species closes
the entrance to its burrow late in autumn, and appears to pass the
winter in a state of semi-hibernation; for, though taking nourishment,
and not torpid, it never comes out, except very rarely in long-continued
mild weather.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">Like the true squirrels, the chipmucks are properly nut-eaters,
though they feed rather more upon the seeds of small plants than
their arboreal relatives; nor do they subsist upon the buds of trees.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
<abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy informs me that he once observed a number of chipmucks
climbing the bushes of the prickly ash
(<span class="taxon">Xanthoxylum americanum</span>),
to obtain the berries which they were carrying to their burrows in
considerable quantities. At another time, he saw one repeatedly
climb a hickory and cut off the unripe nuts, which were brought to
<span id="page72" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="72"/>
the ground, and, while yet covered with the green pericarp, placed
in a hole at the root of the tree, which, however, was not its burrow;
and he was told that the same individual was noticed to carry
away nuts in this manner for some days.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Though this species does
not generally climb trees, except when pursued, I am inclined to
think it does so voluntarily more frequently than is supposed.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The quantity of nuts, acorns, and seeds sometimes collected by
these industrious little fellows is astonishing. They are frequently
stored temporarily under logs, and in shallow holes under roots of
trees, and afterwards removed to the burrow, at a more leisure season.
I have known lazy people to watch the chipmucks in nutting
time, and finding where they carried their stores, dig them out,
saying they could thus get nuts faster than by picking them up
themselves.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
In a burrow dug open in November, I found over half
a bushel of hickory-nuts and acorns. These were not all in one
place, but in four or five enlarged chambers, in different parts of the
burrow, which was complicated, and consisted of several winding
and intersecting passages, situated not over a foot below the surface.
The entrance to the burrow was under a log, and the passages
extended several feet on every side. A large nest of leaves and
grass was placed above the surface, under the rotten log. Only one
of the inhabitants was found, but he was quite active.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">This ground squirrel is sociable; and sometimes, though not
always, several pairs occupy the same burrow in winter, the store
of food being common property.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
These, like the true squirrels,
stand erect on their hind-feet, when eating, using the fore-paws as
hands. The power of their incisors is wonderful; they cut with
apparent ease through the shells of the seeds of wild plums, which
would resist the point of tempered steel.</span></p>
    <p>At times, the note of the chipmuck is a short deep
<span class="vocalization">cluck</span>, repeatedly
pronounced, without variation; and on a sunny day, he will sometimes
utter it for an hour at a time, being meanwhile perched upon
a stump or log; but more frequently the note is a shriller
<span class="vocalization">chip-chip</span>.
When alarmed, he utters a low chatter.</p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The amount of grain stolen by chipmucks is seldom of much
value; though, where they are so abundant as to attack a field by
hundreds, the result of their depredations may become quite an item
of loss.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
The most serious cause of complaint against them is, the
injury done by digging up corn when first planted. They go along
the rows like the black-birds or spermophiles, and, guided by the
sprouting blades, dig out the grains, or even take them before they
sprout, and in this way frequently cause considerable damage.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Chipmucks, generally, however, cannot be considered as great enemies
to the farmer. They are oftener destroyed by the rapacious birds
and mammals than the true squirrels, though, being considered of
no value as food, they are not so frequently killed by man.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Our
small weasels are known to kill many; the mink often makes a
meal of them; and even the foxes and wild-cats do not disdain to
devour every unlucky little individual they can catch, while many
are eaten by birds of prey; so that it is no matter of surprise that
<span id="page73" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="73"/>
they should increase in cultivated districts, where they are in a
measure protected from their natural enemies.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
When they become
so numerous and destructive as to render it necessary to kill them
off, they may be easily shot, or caught in any kind of a trap,
as they are not at all suspicious; and they could probably be
poisoned with arsenic, mixed with meal, and placed near their
burrows. Several ferrets and terrier dogs would quickly clear a farm
of them.</span></p>
    <p>Other ground squirrels, closely resembling this in appearance and
habits, exist in the western parts of the Union. I learn from <abbr>Dr.</abbr>
Hoy that the four-lined ground squirrel
(<span class="taxon">Tamias quadrivittatus</span>) [Say, 1823]
is found in Northern Wisconsin. This species, as observed by
him in the Lake Superior region, appeared to have habits similar to
those of <span class="taxon">Tamias striatus</span>, though its voice
differs so much as to be readily distinguishable from that of the latter,
the note being longer and on a higher key.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>The binomial nomenclature <span class="taxon">Tamias striatus</span> [Linnæus, <time>1758</time>] used by the author is still valid.</p>
    <hr class="half" />
    <p>This species is currently referred to using the common name &#8216;Eastern Chipmunk&#8217;.</p>
    <p>For more information on the Eastern Chipmunk, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 168: <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/3503819" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.2307/3503819</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180207" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 180207</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>