<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Common White-Footed Wood-Mouse</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="cwfwm.label">
  <span id="page90b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="90b"/>
  <h1 id="cwfwm.label">Common White-Footed Wood-Mouse</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate10.xhtml#b">Plate <span title="ten b">X.b</span></a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Mus leucopus</span> [Rafinesque, <time>1818</time>]</li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph"><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;Animals
of this species vary much in size, adult specimens
being from 2&#189; to 3&#190; inches in length. The length of the tail, as compared
with that of the body, also varies, being usually, however, a little shorter.
The colors of the upper parts also vary in different specimens and at different
seasons.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">Length of a large female, in August, from nose to root of tail, 3&#190; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail, 2&#8542; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">hind-foot thirteen-sixteenths of an inch.</span>
</span>
The upper
parts are light brownish-yellow, with a stripe darker along the back. The
yellow color is clearest on the cheeks and along the sides. The feet and entire
under surface of the body are pure white.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Other summer specimens are
bluish-gray on the back. Upper parts, of a young specimen, of a uniform
blackish ash-color, without any yellow. Though this may rarely be mistaken
for the common house-mouse, which it somewhat resembles in form, it is at
once distinguishable by its pure white belly and feet.</span></p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The white-footed wood-mouse is known under the names of
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Deer Mouse,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Buck Mouse,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;White-footed Field Mouse,&#8221;</span>
</span>
and, in common with the &#8220;Wood Mouse&#8221;
(<span class="taxon">Jaculus labradorius</span>)<sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup>
and &#8220;Jumping Mouse.&#8221;</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It appears to exist throughout the wooded
portions of the United States generally from the Atlantic to the
Pacific. In this vicinity, the <span class="taxon">Mus leucopus</span> appears to inhabit the
timber only. I never observed one on the prairie.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It is found in
wooded farms, where it is more or less injurious to the farmer,
carrying off and devouring grain, destroying various young plants,
and occasionally doing much mischief by gnawing the bark of fruit-trees.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
On the whole, however, it cannot be considered very injurious.
Though it may inhabit grain-fields in harvest time, it is
decidedly a timber lover, and never breeds nor takes up its residence
permanently in large fields, clear of trees, stumps, and logs. Its
home is usually in an old stump or fallen log, under the bark of
decayed trees, and sometimes in hollow trees, at a considerable
height above the ground. It sometimes takes possession of deserted
birds’ nests, and occasionally builds in the branches of trees.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
<abbr>Dr.</abbr>
Hoy informs me that he has seen several of its nests in Southern
Wisconsin. They were usually placed among the thick branches
of a thorn, at a height of 8 or 10 feet from the ground. The nests
were composed of grass, and were of a globular form, the entrance
<span id="page91" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="91"/>
being a small hole on one side.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
I have also found nests on the
ground, under logs, and once in August, found a female, about to
bring forth young, in a nest of grass under a small block of wood,
on a low river-bottom. I have not observed this species burrowing
in the ground, and it appears rarely, if ever, to do so in the woods.</span></p>
    <p>This mouse is sometimes gregarious, as many as a dozen having
been found together in winter. I am informed of numerous instances
in which several have been observed inhabiting the same hole in a
tree with a family of flying squirrels. Neither species being at all
<a href="glossary.xhtml#pugnacious" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">pugnacious</a>,
they doubtless live together in harmony.</p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The white-footed wood-mouse feeds chiefly upon the leaves and
seeds of various grasses, and other herbaceous plants, with nuts,
acorns, and the seeds of basswood, maple, and other trees; grain is
also eaten greedily by it in the fields.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It lays up considerable stores
of food for winter. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Joseph Kennicott informs me that, in
Western New York, he found within a stump in a clover-field, several
quarts of clean seed of red clover, collected by a family of these
mice.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
In storing up buckwheat, beech-nuts, and some other nuts
and seeds, they strip off the shell, or covering to the kernel, and
frequently a quart or two of the cleaned kernels of beech-nuts or
various seeds will be found in their holes. Why this is done is not
apparent. The mice would scarcely take so much trouble merely to
save room occupied by the shells, and these fleshy kernels cannot
keep as well when thus deprived of their natural covering.</span></p>
    <p>This species is active in winter, like the rest of the genus, moving
about a good deal on top of the snow, as well as below it, and sometimes
traveling a long distance at this season. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Laurence
Koebelin tells me that, in cold weather, in December, he found one
which had collected grass and formed a large nest in a pile of wood
within two days after it had been cut.</p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The female exhibits much affection for her young. These,
when small, I have always found attached to her teats, in which
way she would carry them off, moving, unless chased, with great
caution, as though she feared to injure them.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
A neighbor relates
that, in turning over a log in the woods, he exposed one of these
mice, which, instead of jumping off rapidly, moved slowly away
along a small log, and was observed to have several young attached
to her teats. Her movements being watched with interest, one of
the young was seen to be brushed off and fall among the grass, the
mother passing on out of sight. The young mouse left was quite
helpless, and, continued to utter a low squeak. After a while, the
mother returned to it, and though her movements could no longer
be observed, the voice of the young mouse ceased, and, upon examination
of the spot, it was found to have disappeared with the
mother. It is not to be supposed, however, that the young of this
mouse are attached to the
<a href="glossary.xhtml#mamma" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">mammae</a>
of the parent like those of the
opossum.</span></p>
    <p>Caged specimens do not eat flesh, and are not at all pugnacious.
One kept for some time was very timid, did not bite when taken in
the hand, nor did it become irritated when teased; yet remained
<span id="page92" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="92"/>
discontented with captivity, showing no inclination to burrow in
the earth at the bottom of its cage. When liberated upon the floor,
it moved by sudden springs, holding high its long tail.</p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">This species is active on the ground, and climbs readily. It dreads
the usual enemies of small, timber-loving quadrupeds, though being
nocturnal, it probably escapes the attacks of hawks. It must be
much preyed upon, however, by owls; and weasels are said to be
among its worst enemies.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
I have in several instances found the
milk-snake
(<span class="taxon">Ophiobolus eximius</span>)<sup><a href="#footnote.2" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[2]</a></sup>
under logs and in old stumps, in
suspicious proximity to the nests of this mouse; and other snakes,
inhabiting the woods, also probably devour it. That it has numerous
enemies is shown by its not increasing more rapidly&#8212;since it is
a prolific species. I have usually found from four to six young in a
nest; and there are two to three litters a year.</span></p>
    <p>This is a beautiful little animal, possessing a graceful form and
delicate colors, and would make a very interesting cage pet.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>This species is now placed within the genus <span class="taxon">Peromyscus</span> [Gloger, <time>1841</time>] as <span class="taxon">Peromyscus leucopus</span> [Rafinesque, <time>1818</time>].</p>
    <p>This species is currently referred to using the common name &#8216;White-footed Mouse&#8217;.</p>
    <p>For more information on the White-footed Mouse, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 247: <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/3503904" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.2307/3503904</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180278" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 180278</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
Currently referred to by the binomial name <span class="taxon">Zapus hudsonius</span> [Zimmermann, <time>1780</time>]. See <a href="long-tailed-jumping-mouse.xhtml#page95b" >page 95b</a>.</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 2" id="footnote.2" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[2]
Currently referred to by the binomial name <span class="taxon">Lampropeltis triangulum</span> [Lacépède, <time>1789</time>].</p>
    <p>The are two subspecies in Illinois, the nominate Eastern Milksnake (<span class="taxon"><abbr>L.</abbr> <abbr>t.</abbr> triangulum</span>) in the north and the Red Milksnake (<span class="taxon"><abbr>L.</abbr> <abbr>t.</abbr> syspila</span>) [Cope, <time>1889</time>] in the south; with integrades existing in the contact zone.</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>