<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Common Flying Squirrel</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="lred-squirrel.label">
  <span id="page69b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="69b"/>
  <h1 id="lred-squirrel.label">Common Flying Squirrel</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate7.xhtml#b">Plate <span title="seven b">VII.b</span></a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Pteromys volucella</span> [Gmelin]</li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph"><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;<span role="list"><span role="listitem">Length of old male, in March, from nose to root of tail, 4&#189; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">vertebrae of tail, 3 inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail to end of hair, 3&#8542; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">hind-foot, 1&#188; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">breadth of tail, hairs in natural position, 1&#189; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">width across the back from side to side, including fur, with the flying membrane extended, 4 inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">length of supplemental bone supporting the flying membrane, &#190; inch.</span>
</span></span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
This is certainly the most beautiful of our rodents. In the specimen before me,
the long exquisitely soft fur, is slate-colored, tipped with creamy-yellowish
drab on the back, the top of the tail brownish-drab; on the under surface,
milk-white, tipped with cream color at the outer edges of the flying
membrane and toward the tail, the under surface of which is very light
brownish-yellow, tinged with cream.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
The large prominent eyes are black
and lustrous; the whiskers long, and the nearly-naked ears rather large.
The tail is densely clothed with soft hairs, and smoothly flattened; the feet
are slender with small arched nails. The skin on the side is extended
outward, to form a membrane which is attached to the legs, and to a
supplemental slender curved bone, articulating with the joint of the fore-foot.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
When this membrane is stretched, the animal is enabled to sail through the
air to some distance, by the force gained in descending from any elevated
position, being aided in this by the flattened tail, which also serves as a
rudder.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It is not to be supposed, however, that the flying squirrel can propel
itself through the air, like a bird or bat. The tail and membranes only form
a sort of parachute, to buoy it up while the force gained by the descent, and
by the spring made, carry it forward. When it is about to alight, it sails
upward, by using the tail and hinder parts as a rudder, the momentum
acquired being sufficient to raise it for some height at a considerable curve.</span></p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p>This, and several other American flying squirrels, and more from
the Old World, form an exceedingly interesting group in the family
Sciuridae, from the other members of which they differ materially in
some of their habits. It probably exists throughout the whole
eastern part of the Union. Its habitat being strictly among the
trees, it cannot of course abide on the prairies, nor is it found
generally in our smaller prairie groves; though it is as abundant in
the large woods of Northern Illinois as elsewhere.</p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The flying squirrel is as active as the true species, but, unlike the
rest of the family, it is nocturnal, and does not move about by day,
except at times in cloudy weather. It prefers the twilight or darkness,
<span id="page70" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="70"/>
when it leaves its retreat for amusement or in search of food,
seldom travelling on the ground, but sailing gracefully from tree
to tree, running up toward the top of one, and alighting lower
upon the trunk of another.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It is gregarious, living in hollow trees
in large companies. It usually prevails in greater numbers, wherever
found at all, than is generally supposed. If, in passing through
the woods, any one will strike the sides of old hollow trees, he will
frequently see a number of these singular and beautiful little animals
rush out of a hole, and sail off to the neighboring trees.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It does
not build nests of leaves among the branches, like the true squirrels.
I am informed by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brendel, of Peoria, however, that a
female was observed by him to bring forth in a deserted bird’s nest.
From three to six young are produced at a birth.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Its food
appears to be similar to that of the true squirrels. It eats corn and
other grain, though, as it does not willingly leave the trees, the
amount is probably inconsiderable, compared with that taken by the
true species.</span></p>
    <p>Flying squirrels appear, sometimes at least, to lay up stores of
food for winter, at which time, they are active. I am informed of a
number of instances in which they have entered the garrets of
cabins in the woods to feed upon the corn deposited there.</p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">A specimen kept in a cage became quite tame in a few days.
Unless disturbed, it remained quiet during the day, curled up in its
nest, with the head drawn down to the abdomen, and the flat tail
laid over its head and upon the back. It would take food offered it
during the day, but the light seemed to be painful to its eyes. In
the evening, it began to spring and climb about the cage, and was
active all night.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
This species has frequently been known to take
up its residence, voluntarily, in or about human dwellings. It is
quite easily domesticated, and being gentle, and very beautiful,
makes a pleasant and interesting pet<sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup></span>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>The binomial name <span class="taxon">Pteromys volucella</span> [Gmelin] used by the author is not currently an accepted name.</p>
    <p>The species the author is referencing is the species currently referred to as
<span class="taxon">Glaucomys volans</span> [Linnaeus, <time>1758</time>].</p>
    <p>Originally described by Linnaeus in <time>1758</time> as <span class="taxon">Mus volans</span>, the genus <span class="taxon">Mus</span> was used as a taxonomy dumping ground for rodents that did not yet have an identifiable genus described to place them in.</p>
    <p>In <time>1778</time>, Pallas moved the species into the squirrel genus <span class="taxon">Sciurus</span> and renamed the specific name to <span class="taxon">volucella</span>, resulting in the the binomial name <span class="taxon">Sciurus volucella</span>.</p>
    <p>In <time>1800</time>, Cuvier assigned the genus name <span class="taxon">Pteromy</span> to flying squirrels using a Eurasian flying squirrel as the type species.</p>
    <p>Sometime in the 19th century, perhaps first by Harlan in <span class="worktitle">Fauna Americana</span> (<time>1825</time>), this flying squirrel was moved into the genus <span class="taxon">Pteromy</span> giving it the binomial name <span class="taxon">Pteromys volucella</span> used by the author. The author cites Gmelin as the authority but I do not believe he is referencing the move into <span class="taxon">Pteromy</span>.</p>
    <p>In <time>1908</time>, Thomas saw that Eurasian and American flying squirrels were different enough to warrant distinct genera and assigned the genus name <span class="taxon">Glaucomys</span> for American flying squirrels.</p>
    <p>The original species name <span class="taxon">volans</span> takes priority over <span class="taxon">volucella</span> by the rules of taxonomy nomenclature, giving us the currently accepted binomial name of <span class="taxon">Glaucomys volans</span> [Linnaeus, <time>1758</time>].</p>
    <hr class="half" />
    <p>This species is currently referred to using the common name &#8216;Southern Flying Squirrel&#8217;.</p>
    <p>For more information on the Southern Flying Squirrel, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 78: <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/3504026" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.2307/3504026</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180170" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 180170</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
Please note that the author mentions this species is both gregarious (communal) and nocturnal. Much like sugar gliders, attempting to keep flying squirrels as pets is likely to be psychologically harmful to the squirrel. Please refrain from attempting to do so.</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>