<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Donations</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="../pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="fundingh1">
  <h1 id="fundingh1">Donations</h1>
  <p>I am a <strong>strong</strong> supporter of the Open Access concepts presented by Aaron Swartz (may he <em>never</em> be forgotten) in his <a href="https://archive.org/stream/GuerillaOpenAccessManifesto/Goamjuly2008_djvu.txt" title="Internet Resource">Guerilla Open Access Manifesto</a>, including:</p>
  <blockquote>&#8220;Only those blinded by greed would refuse to let a friend make a copy. Large corporations, of course, are blinded by greed.&#8221;</blockquote>
  <p>For some people, even charging $1.00 results in a financial access barrier that prevents access to the resource. Those people are not any less worthy than Jeff Bezos or Mark Zuckerberg. This is why this digital book is provided for free without any charge.</p>
  <p>That being said, an incredible amount of time, energy, and even some personal financial resources went into the production of this digital book.</p>
  <p>I only ask you for $5.00. You can donate more to if you would like, of course, or donate less or even donate none. The choice is completely yours to make and depends upon both your financial means and your personal level of generosity.</p>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pph2">
    <h2 id="pph2">Pipfrosch Press</h2>
    <p>At this time, hopefully soon to be remedied, Pipfrosch Press is not a legal entity. Donations can be made to Michael A. Peters with the understanding that such donations are not at this time tax deductible.</p>
    <p>Donations will help Pipfrosch Press continue to produce Open Access digital publications, both the republication of previously print published academic content and the production of fresh content.</p>
    <p>To donate using the Android or iOS/iPadOS &#8220;CashApp&#8221; application:</p>
    <p>CashApp tag <a href="https://cash.app/$AliceWonderMisc" title="Internet Resource">$AliceWonderMisc</a></p>
    <p>To donate using PayPal:</p>
    <p>PayPal Payment Address <a href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&amp;business=pipfroschpress@gmail.com&amp;lc=US&amp;item_name=Donation+to+Pipfrosch+Press+Open+Access+ePub+Production&amp;no_note=0&amp;cn=&amp;curency_code=USD&amp;bn=PP-DonationsBF:btn_donateCC_LG.gif:NonHosted" title="Internet Resource">pipfroschpress@gmail.com</a>. Note that PayPal allows you to make it a monthly donation, <strong>only check the box for that if that <em>really</em> is your intention</strong>.</p>
    <p>Thank you.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>