<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Forward</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section  epub:type="forward" role="doc-forward" aria-labelledby="chapter.label">
  <h1 id="chapter.label">Forward</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">by Michael A. Peters of Pipfrosch Press</p>
  <p>The title of this paper is &#8216;The Quadrupeds of Illinois, Injurious and Beneficial to the Farmer&#8217; but the mammals that it covers are all rodents. Other quadrupeds are <em>not</em> covered. Rumor has it that Robert Kennicott published a few subsequent papers with the same title in subsequent volumes of the Report of the Commissioner of Patents for Agriculture, perhaps this article is the first in a series that alsp cover quadrupeds other than rodents.</p>
  <hr class="half" />
  <p>While working on a digital publication for the Journal of Mammalogy, Volume 1, Number 2; this paper was cited by one of the authors. As always, I did my best to find the resource cited to verify the works cited section is correct.</p>
  <p>The only copy of this paper that I could find in digital form was a very poor quality <abbr>PDF</abbr> scan by Google Books:
<a href="https://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.32044107329120" title="Internet Resource">info:hdl/2027/hvd.32044107329120</a>.</p>
  <p>My attention was quickly drawn to both the detailed species accounts the author gave and the passion the author had for spreading the message that farmers killing every presumed pest was often a mistake that actually hurts the farmer more than it helps the farmer.</p>
  <p>That passion of the author, encouraging an attitude of living in harmony with the natural world as opposed to total domination of the natural world, reminded me of my favorite conservation organization,
<a href="https://alongsidewildlifefoundation.org/" title="Internet Resource">The Alongside Wildlife Foundation</a> founded by <abbr>Dr.</abbr> David A. Steen, and I immediately began transcription of article to the ePub specification.</p>
  <p>Even though this article is quite old, it contains a treasure trove of natural history information and much of what is contained within is of benefit both to the naturalist who wants to understand more about the species described within the article as well as to those who wish to farm on the smaller scale in their backyards, a growing trend I wish I had space and resources to partake in myself.</p>
  <p>For the young aspiring naturalist, modern academic papers are often very difficult to read due to the high level of academics frequently needed to understand what the author is trying to convey. Older papers, such as this one, can help quench the thirst for knowledge while the aspring naturalist continues to learn what is necessary to properly comprehend modern academic works.</p>
  <p>I hope you enjoy reading this paper as much as I did while transcribing it.</p>
  <section id="comprehension" aria-labelledby="comprehension.label">
    <h2 id="comprehension.label">Comprehension Tips</h2>
    <p>It is recommended that before reading this paper, you at least skim the <a href="glossary.xhtml">glossary</a> for terms you may not be familiar with.</p>
    <p>The author frequently uses the abbreviation &#8216;<abbr>&amp;c.</abbr>&#8217; for &#8216;Et cetera&#8217;. That was common in the 19th century, but it may be unfamiliar to modern readers who are more accustomed to seeing it abbreviated as &#8216;<abbr>etc.</abbr>&#8217;</p>
    <p>The author often uses the term &#8216;old male&#8217; where the meaning to be understood is actually <em>adult male</em>.</p>
    <p>The author often uses male pronouns where the sex of the subject could be male or female.</p>
    <p>The other uses the term &#8216;arvicolae&#8216; and &#8216;meadow-mice&#8216; interchangeably. He is referring to what we now generally call <em>voles</em>.</p>
    <p>This is important to note because from <a href="meadow-mice.xhtml">pages 84&#8211;90</a>, the author describes the &#8216;meadow-mice&#8216; group in general. However the mouse descriptions that directly follow that group description are <em>not</em> voles, and are <em>not</em> considered to be &#8216;arvicolae&#8216; or &#8216;meadow-mice&#8216; by the author.</p>
    <p>It is the opinion of Pipfrosch Press that for clarity, there should have been a different introduction to those mice, but that is not how the article was written.</p>
    <p>The actual species accounts to voles (&#8216;arvicolae&#8216; and &#8216;meadow-mice&#8216;) do not start until <a href="prairie-meadow-mouse.xhtml">page 97b</a> and happen to specified by the author as belonging to the genus <span class="taxon">Arvicola</span>. It should be noted that in modern taxonomy, many species formerly placed within <span class="taxon">Arvicola</span> are now placed within the genus <span class="taxon">Microtus</span>, including all three species of voles the author gives a species account for.</p>
    <p>To summarize, the following species are <em>not</em> what the author considers to be &#8216;arvicolae&#8216; or &#8216;meadow-mice&#8216; even though they directly follow his description of that group:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Common White-Footed Mouse (White-footed Mouse) on <a href="common-white-footed-mouse.xhtml">pages 90b&#8211;92</a></li>
      <li>White-Footed Prairie Mouse (Deer Mouse) on <a href="white-footed-prairie-mouse.xhtml">pages 92b&#8211;95</a></li>
      <li>Long-Tailed Jumping Mouse (Meadow Jumping Mouse) on <a href="long-tailed-jumping-mouse.xhtml">pages 95b&#8211;97</a></li>
    </ol>
  <section>
  <section id="editorial" aria-labelledby="editorial.label">
    <h2 id="editorial.label">Editorial Changes</h2>
    <p>In the species accounts where the author specified a <a href="glossary.xhtml#name_authority" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">Name Authority</a>, the author did not include the year of the <a href="glossary.xhtml#binomial_name" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">binomial name</a> description. Those were added.</p>
    <p>In the few cases where the author did not include a Name Authority at all, the Name Authority was added with a footnote.</p>
    <p>In the one case where the author misspelled the Name Authority, the spelling was corrected.</p>
    <p>Pipfrosch Press always places a Name Authority inside square brackets in order to visually distinguish them from other types of references.</p>
    <p>Footnotes by the original author are indicated by square brackets around a diamond symbol: [&#9830;].</p>
    <p>Footnotes by Pipfrosch Press are indicated by square brackets around a counting number: [1], [2], <abbr title="Et cetera">etc.</abbr></p>
    <p>The author often capitalized adjectives that were not part of a proper noun. Most of those grammar errors have been fixed to improve readability.</p>
    <p>The spelling of some words&#8212;such as &#8216;centre&#8217;, &#8216;grey&#8217;, and &#8216;reconnoitre&#8217;&#8212;have been updated to use the current American English spellings. I apologize to those who prefer the British spelling, but this paper was originally published in America and already used some Americanized spellings.</p>
    <p>The author was very fond of using hyphens. In some cases where the use of hyphens is clearly no longer appropriate in modern typography, those hyphens were removed. There may still be some cases where the excessive use of hyphens can be removed.</p>
    <p>With each species account, a taxonomy section was added at the end that gives the current taxonomy nomenclature used, when it differs; as well as the current common name used, when it differs. When available, this section also includes links to more modern resources related to the species that have been kindly provided by the <a href="https://www.mammalsociety.org/" title="Internet Resource">American Society of Mammalogists</a> as Open Access documents. Links to the <abbr>ITIS</abbr> <abbr>TSN</abbr> report for the species is also provided, and is also a free resource.</p>
    <p>When available, quality high resolution color photographs have been added for each species account.</p>
    <p>Currently, 8 species accounts are without color photographs and 4 of the existing color photographs I hope to replace in the future.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>