<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Glossary of Terms</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/glossary.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="glossary" role="doc-glossary" aria-labelledby="chapter.label">
  <h1 id="chapter.label">Glossary of Terms</h1>
  <dl>
    <!-- A -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="abscess"><dfn>abscess</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">A cavity caused by tissue destruction, usually because of infection, filled with pus and surrounded by inflamed tissue. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-08-03T10:29:00-0700">2020 August 03</time></span></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="allele"><dfn>allele</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">A genetic variation of a gene. Please not that in non-academic conversation, the word <em>gene</em> is often used where the word <em>allele</em> should be used. For example, we all have the same genes, what makes people have genetically individual characterists are different variations of those genes we all have, and those variations are properly referred to as <em>alleles</em>, not <em>genes</em>.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="arboreal"><dfn>arboreal</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Dwelling primarily in the trees.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="arvicolae"><dfn>arvicolae</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">The author uses this term interchangeably with meadow-mice, which are now often referred to as voles.</dd>
    <!-- B -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="binomial_name"><dfn>binomial name</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Sometimes also referred to as &#8216;binomial nomenclature&#8217;. The specified <a href="#taxonomy" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">taxonomy</a> Genus and Species assigned to a biological life form. For example, the Gray Wolf has the binomial name <span class="taxon">Canis lupus</span>. See also <a href="#trinomial_name" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">trinomial name</a>.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="bring_forth"><dfn>bring forth</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">An <a href="#idiom" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">idiom</a> to indicate the bearing of young.</dd>
    <!-- C -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="carnivorous"><dfn>carnivorous</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Feeds upon animals.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="conchologist"><dfn>conchologist</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">One who studies mollusk shells.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="congener"><dfn>congener</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">A member of the same taxonomy genus.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="congenial"><dfn>congenial</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">pleasant and familiar, safe.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="corn_crib"><dfn>corn crib</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">A building originally designed by the indigenous peoples of the Americas and later adopted by the European colonies who then spread the design back to Europe. It is designed to protect harvested corn&#8212;still on the cob&#8212;from the elements while retaining outside air flow, allowing the corn to dry. Corn cribs are usually elevated to reduce predation by pests.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="corn_shock"><dfn>corn shock</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Before modern mechanized harvesting techniques were developed, in the fall when corn was harvested it often be dried by bundling corn stalks together vertically and left in the field to dry. These bundles were called corn shocks. See <a href="photo24.xhtml">Photo 24</a>. The Amish still use this technique.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="cryptic_species_complex"><dfn>cryptic species complex</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">A group of two or more closely related yet distinct species that are either difficult or impossible to distinguish from each other based upon morphological features alone.</dd>
    <!-- D -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="depredation"><dfn>depredation</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Consumption of agricultural resources to the loss of the farmer.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="domesticated"><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The author frequently uses this term incorrectly to simply mean tamed; living as a pet that has learned to accept captivity.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
The <em>actual</em> meaning however is a lineage of plants or animals that have been through a process of selective breeding by humans so that they now differ, often considerably, from their wild form for a beneficial purpose to man; often with the result of changed natural history should they be required to survive without man caring for them.</span></dt>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="domiciled"><dfn>domiciled</dfn></dt>
      <dd>Established as resident.</dd>
    <!-- E -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="enemy"><dfn>enemy</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">In the context of natural history, a species that kills another species, often but not always for food, is sometimes referred to as an &#8216;enemy&#8217;.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="et_cetera"><dfn>et cetera</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">An indication that a list continues with additional items that are similar to the previously specified items. Typically abbreviated, as <abbr>&amp;c.</abbr> historically but more commonly in the present with <abbr>etc.</abbr></dd>
    <!-- F -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="fecundity"><dfn>fecundity</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Number, rate, or capacity of offspring production. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-07-08T11:58:00-0700">2020 July 08</time></span></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="forenoon"><dfn>forenoon</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Archaic synonym for morning; the time between sunrise and noon.</dd>
    <!-- G -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="girdle"><dfn>girdle</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">To kill or stunt a tree by removing or inverting a ring of bark. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-07-08T14:57:00-0700">2020 July 08</time></span></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="gravid"><dfn>gravid</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Synonymous with pregnant. In recent years, it is no longer customary to use <em>gravid</em> in the context of mammals, but it is still frequently used in the context of reptiles, live-bearing fish, and some invertebrates.</dd>
    <!-- H -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="haunts"><dfn>haunts</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">locations of habitation.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossdef" role="term" id="horde">horde</dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">A numerically large grouping of organisms; typically used in the context of a migration from one location to another.</dd>
    <!-- I -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="idiom"><dfn>idiom</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossterm">An established expression whose meaning is not deducible from the literal meanings of its component words, often peculiar to a given language. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-08-03T15:58:00-0700">2020 August 03</time></span></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="inclement"><dfn>inclement</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Severe; unrelenting. Usually used in the context of weather.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="indigenous_peoples"><dfn><abbr>indigenous peoples</abbr></dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">The ethnic people groups who inhabited a land prior to the recording of modern written history. Also often referred to as &#8216;First Nations&#8217; or &#8216;Native Peoples&#8217;.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="injurious"><dfn>injurious</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">harmful; causing loss of crops or livestock in the context of farming.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="ITIS"><dfn><abbr>ITIS</abbr></dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Abbreviation for Intergrated Taxonomic Information System. An online database with &#8220;authoritative taxonomic information on plants, animals, fungi, and microbes of North America and the world.&#8221; The database is available to the public at <a href="https://www.itis.gov/" title="Internet Resource">https://www.itis.gov/</a>.</dd>
    <!-- L -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="larva"><dfn>larva</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Usually used with insects and amphibians. A life stage after birth or hatching but prior to
<a href="#metamorphosis" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">metamorphosis</a> into the adult form. Pluralized as <dfn>larvae</dfn>.</dd>
    <!-- M -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="mamma"><dfn>mamma</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">The milk secreting organ of mammals. Pluralized as <dfn>mammae</dfn>.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="mast"><dfn>mast</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">In the context of botany, the fruit of forest trees and shrubs; acorns and other nuts.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="masticate"><dfn>masticate</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">To chew, often in the context of extended chewing, such as the chewing of cud.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="melanin"><dfn>melanin</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Any of a group of naturally occurring dark pigments, especially the pigment found in skin, hair, fur, and feathers.<span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-08-03T18:29:00-0700">2020 August 03</time></span></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="melanism"><dfn>melanism</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">The excessive production of <a href="#melanin" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">melanin</a> in an organism rulting in a black or very dark coloration that is often atypical for the species.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="melanistic"><dfn>melanistic</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Having the property of <a href="#melanism" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">melanism</a></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="metamorphosis"><dfn>metamorphosis</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">The <a href="#morphological" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">morphological</a> transition some animals go through from one life stage into their next (often adult) life stage.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="milldam"><dfn>milldam</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">A dam constructed to create a mill pond, using water that overflows the dam to turn a water wheel.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="milk_(corn)"><dfn>milk (corn)</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">A stage during the development of corn where the kernels are mostly yellow and contain a milky white fluid. See the Purdue University web page <a href="https://www.agry.purdue.edu/ext/corn/pubs/corn-03.htm" title="Internet Resource">Kernel Development Stages in Corn</a> for more information.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="morphological"><dfn>morphological</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">The observable physical characteristics of an organism.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="myriad"><dfn>myriad</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossterm">Large quantity or number.</dd>
    <!-- N -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="name_authority"><dfn>Name Authority</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef"><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">Often just referred to as &#8216;authority&#8217;. When a <a href="#taxonomy" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">taxonomy</a> rank, <a href="#binomial_name" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">binomial name</a>, or <a href="#trinomial_name" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">trinomial name</a> is specified; the name of the naturalist considered to be the authority for that rank or name is often also specified. Usually the name of the naturalist and the year of the authoritative description is given, in some cases the <a href="#ITIS" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref"><abbr>ITIS</abbr></a> Taxonomic Serial Number (<abbr>TSN</abbr>) is also specified, when one exists.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">When an authority is used with a binomial name, the authority usually refers to the naturalist associated with describing the Species rank even if the Genus rank differs from their description. When used with a trinomial name, the authority usually referes to the naturalist associated with describing the Subspecies rank, even if that naturalist originally assigned it as a now-invalidated Species rank. It should be noted that in some cases, especially where taxonomy confusion exists, the authority may not reference the first naturalist to use the rank name.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">Pipfrosch Press always encapsulates the authority within square brackets. In zoology, sometimes the abbreviation <abbr>L.</abbr> is used in an authority to indicate Linnaeus (or Linné if after <time>1761</time> when he was granted nobility status). Botany has some additional common authority abbreviations.</span></dd>
    <!-- P -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="pecuniary"><dfn>pecuniary</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Fiscally or monetary.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="plumbeous"><dfn>plumbeous</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Of a dull gray lead-like color.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="pomologist"><dfn>pomologist</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">A person who studies fruits and the cultivation of of fruits.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="pugnacious"><dfn>pugnacious</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Naturally aggressive or hostile. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-07-09T08:59:00-0700">2020 July 09</time></span></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="pupa"><dfn>pupa</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">The life stage of an insect during the <a href="#metamorphosis" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">metamorphosis</a> transition, often taking place within a shell the larva creates called a cocoon. Pluralized as <dfn>pupae</dfn>.</dd>
    <!-- Q -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="quadruped"><dfn>quadruped</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">In the general sense, any animal that uses four limbs for locomotion. It differs from the term tetrapod in that tetrapods include animals that at one point in their evolutionary history had four limbs but no longer do&#8212;such as snakes&#8212;and tetrapod also includes species with four limbs but have adapted to bipedal (two limb) locomotion. However even though the quadruped <em>technically</em> applies to many reptiles and amphibians, quadruped is <em>generally</em> used to refer to mammals that use four limbs for locomotion.</dd>
    <!-- R -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="rapacious">rapacious</dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossref">Predatory, typically in reference to predators that hunt down and seize live prey, usually in reference to vertebrate prey. In modern times, this term is usually only used in the context of rapacious birds but historically it also has been heavily used in the context of rapacious mammals.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="reconnoiter"><dfn>reconnoiter</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">To perform a reconnaissance (of an area; an enemy position); to scout with the aim of gaining information. <span class="wiktionary">Wiktionary <time datetime="2020-07-27T10:33:00-0700">2020 July 27</time></span></dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="rod"><dfn>rod</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">When used as a unit of measure, a rod is 16&#189; feet which is <em>approximately</em> five meters.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="rudimentary"><dfn>rudimentary</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Basic or minimal. Archaic form: rudimental.</dd>
    <!-- S -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="scientific_name"><dfn>scientific name</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">The <a href="#taxonomy" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">taxonomy</a> <a href="#binomial_name" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">binomial</a> or <a href="#trinomial_name" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">trinomial</a> name assigned to a species or subspecies.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="spermophile"><dfn>spermophile</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Ground squirrels and burrowing squirrel-like rodents. See <a href="spermophiles.xhtml#page73b">page 73b</a>.</dd>
    <!-- T -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="taxonomy"><dfn>taxonomy</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">A system of grouping life forms into hierarchical categories to assist in their study. The standard categories, in hierarchical order, are <span role="list"><span role="listitem">Kingdom,</span>
                  <span role="listitem">Phylum,</span>
                  <span role="listitem">Class,</span>
                  <span role="listitem">Order,</span>
                  <span role="listitem">Family,</span>
                  <span role="listitem">Genus,</span>
                  <span role="listitem">and Species.</span></span> In some cases, <em>super</em> or <em>sub</em> prefixes are used with those categories to indicate an additional category level before or after one of those categories, with &#8216;Subspecies&#8217; being the most commonly encountered additional category by the layman.</dd>
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="trinomial_name"><dfn>trinomial name</dfn></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">Sometimes also referred to as &#8216;trinomial nomenclature&#8217;. The specified <a href="#taxonomy" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">taxonomy</a> Genus, Species, and Subpecies assigned to a biological life form. For example, the Mexican Gray Wolf has the trinomial name <span class="taxon">Canis lupus baileyi</span>. See also <a href="#binomial_name" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">binomial name</a>.</dd>
    <!-- V -->
    <dt epub:type="glossterm" role="term" id="vertebra"></dt>
      <dd epub:type="glossdef">A bone in the spinal column. Pluralized as <dfn>vertebrae</dfn>.</dd>
  </dl>
  
  
</section>
</body>
</html>