<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Grey Prairie-Squirrel</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="gp-squirrel.label">
  <span id="page79b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="79b"/>
  <h1 id="gp-squirrel.label">Grey Prairie-Squirrel</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate9.xhtml#a">Plate <span title="nine a">IX.a</span></a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Spermophilus franklinii</span> [Sabine, <time>1822</time>]</li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;Length, about 10 inches from the nose to the root of tail; the
tail about 5 inches long. It is a little over three-fourths the size of the
migratory squirrel, though its short hair, tail, and legs make it appear
smaller; and its form is much thicker and clumsier than that of the true
squirrels. The back is light-brown, dotted thickly with black; the under
surface is greyish-white. The tail is more bushy than that of the striped
spermophile, but much less so, as well as much shorter, than that of the
migratory species. It is not so light and active as the striped spermophile,
though more so than some of the genus.</p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p>The grey prairie squirrel (grey-gopher, of Northern Illinois,)
exists throughout the prairie regions of
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">Wisconsin,</span>
  <span role="listitem">Illinois,</span>
  <span role="listitem">Missouri,</span>
  <span role="listitem">Iowa,</span>
  <span role="listitem">and probably Minnesota.</span>
</span>
It is abundant is South-eastern Minnesota,
and was observed by <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy, in Eastern Kansas.
It is also said to exist a great distance to the north and west. It is
found much further south in Missouri and Illinois than the
<span class="taxon">Spermophilus tridecemlineatus</span>.
It is far less numerous here than the
striped spermophile, and appears to be a less abundant species wherever
the two exist. It is observed to inhabit the thickets of low
bushes, and the edges of the timber, more than the other, but does
not occur in the woods. It is fond of digging long burrows in the
banks of ditches, and several times, I have seen it living in steep
river-banks, as well as under small wooden culverts in roads. It is
not so shy as the striped spermophile, and takes up its residence
quite near dwellings. It is also less disturbed by the cultivation of
land. In this region, it is usually found living alone or in pairs,
and I have never observed a number of burrows scattered over a
small prairie knoll like the semi-villages of the striped spermophile.
This is perhaps owing to their small numbers; for the species
appears to be naturally gregarious, and, at times, large companies
live together, burrowing within a few feet of each other, and several
pairs even entering the same hole.</p>
    <p>This spermophile exhibits a remarkable disposition to migrate
from one field to another. Not only do the males lead a wandering
<span id="page80" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="80"/>
life in summer, but pairs appear frequently to change their quarters,
leaving their winter burrow to breed in another, and then, perhaps,
hibernating in a third, at some distance from this. In several
instances, a company of a dozen or more have been observed to
appear in a locality where none were seen the previous summer,
and then to disappear after remaining there a year, or only a few
weeks. In the early part of summer, twenty or thirty of these
animals suddenly made their appearance, and burrowed in an old
embankment within three or four rods of my father’s house. They
seemed to have lost the shyness exhibited when leading a solitary
life, and were not alarmed at the near approach of man. They
even came about the kitchen door to pick up crumbs, and disputed
with the chickens for their food. Like the striped spermophiles,
they glided silently to their burrows when alarmed, uttering, as
they entered, a remarkably clear whistle twitter, more musical than
the voice of any other mammal I ever listened to, and as clear as
that of a bird. The same note was uttered when the animal was
hurt or much frightened. They fed upon June-grass, clover, Timothy,
and the broad-leaved plantain, and seemed particularly fond of
the leaves of the common mustard, of which some plants grew near
their burrows. Other specimens, examined in summer, had their
stomachs filled with grass alone. In eating they sat upright on the
tarsi, and used their fore-feet as hands, to draw the leaves to their
mouths, though their paws were used thus with less facility than
those of the true squirrels. Though both the vegetable and flower-garden
were situated within five rods of their burrows, I do not
remember that they were observed to injure either. A number of
young chickens disappearing, however, and the eggs being eaten in
several hens’ nests near the burrows of the spermophiles, suspicion
rested upon them&#8212;probably unjustly&#8212;and a war of extermination
was commenced. Several were shot while others were killed with
clubs, whereupon the survivors left in a body, as suddenly as they
had come, and were never seen again, nor could they be found upon
any part of the farm. I have known this spermophile to take refuge
in a hollow tree, crowding up the hole like the grey-rabbit.
<abbr>Mr.</abbr> F. C. Sherman, of Chicago, informs me that he twice saw one,
when pursued, climb five or six feet up the trellis-work and vines at
the side of a house.</p>
    <p>The burrow of this species is usually deeper than that of the
striped spermophile, but otherwise similar to it. The young, I have
not observed, but <abbr>Mr.</abbr> George S. Parker, of Pecatonica, Illinois,
writes me that he once saw five, and at another time seven young
in a nest. They appear to go into winter-quarters in the fall, and
re-appear in the spring, at about the same time as the striped
spermophile. They have been found hibernating under piles of rails,
and in corn-shocks; and I am informed of two instances in which
one has been found torpid in a hay-stack, where he had formed a
burrow in the hay. I have never heard of its hibernating in such
situations. A caged specimen of Franklin’s spermophile, kept by
Professor Baird, of the Smithsonian Institution, was active all winter;
<span id="page81" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="81"/>
and <abbr>Dr.</abbr> A. M. D. Hughes, of Payson, Illinois, informs me that
he found one in a burrow under a corn-shock, active in mild weather,
late in November.</p>
    <p>This species is carnivorous , though apparently less so than the
striped spermophile. The specimen kept by Professor Baird was
decidedly carnivorous, but one observed by <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy did not eat
mice, though it killed them when placed in its cage. Its food is
generally similar to that of the striped spermophile, stores being
also found in its burrow. It gnaws hard substances more than the
striped spermophile, and, while the latter will not gnaw out of a
box, this readily does so. Caged specimens cut open hazel-nuts also.</p>
    <p>This squirrel injures the farmer by taking up newly-planted corn
as does the striped spermophile. Being far less abundant than the
other, however, it is usually less complained of on newly-broken
land; but it is sometimes the more injurious of the two on old farms,
where it burrows in cultivated fields more willingly than the other.
It frequently burrows during summer in grain-fields, where it eats
the green plants, and afterwards the heads of grain as the kernels
fill; and in this manner, and by throwing down the standing grain,
spoils it for some distance around the burrow. Having a great
predilection for burrowing in ditch banks, and in under drains filled
with brush, it often does serious injury in this way.</p>
    <p>This species may be destroyed in the same manner as the preceding,
though they are not so easily drowned out of their holes,
especially when they are in a bank or drain. They appear to leave
their burrows with less caution, and for a greater distance, than the
others; and, being also left active, they are sometimes chased and
killed with a stick. They are probably more liable to the attacks of
rapacious animals than the others. I have known domestic cats to
catch them, when full-grown.</p>
    <p>It is possible that the striped spermophile drives off this species,
as the two are not found occupying the same field.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>In <time>2009</time>, this subgenus <span class="taxon">Poliocitellus</span> was elevated to full genus status resulting in the binomial name  <span class="taxon">Poliocitellus franklinii</span> [Sabine, <time>1822</time>] for this species.</p>
    <p>This species is currently referred to using the common name Franklin’s Ground Squirrel.</p>
    <p>For more information on the current taxonomy of the Thirteen-Lined Ground Squirrel, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Generic Revision in the Holarctic Ground Squirrel Genus <span class="taxon">Spermophilus</span> (Helgen, <time>2009</time>): <a href="https://doi.org/10.1644/07-MAMM-A-309.1" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.1644/07-MAMM-A-309.1</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=930309" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 930309</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>