<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Wood-Chuck, or Ground-Hog</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ghog.label">
  <span id="page82b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="82b"/>
  <h1 id="ghog.label">Wood-Chuck, or Ground-Hog</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate10.xhtml#a">Plate <span title="ten a">X.a</span></a>, <a href="photo13.xhtml">Photo 13</a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Arctomys monax</span> [Linnæus, <time>1758</time>]</li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;The
wood-chuck is about 18 inches in length from the nose to
the root of the tail, with the vertebrae of the tail about 4 inches. The tail
is bushy, but small; the ears and legs short; the body thick and heavy; a
full-sized specimen weighing 9 or 10 pounds. The usual color of the back
is grizzly-brown, with the head, tail and feet darker; the belly reddish.</p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The wood-chuck is familiar to the farmers of the Eastern and
Middle States. It is abundant on the Missouri River, and exists
westward to the Rocky Mountains. Northward, it is found as far as
Hudson’s Bay. In this part of Illinois, it was exceedingly rare ten
years ago, but is now becoming quite common.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It is an inhabitant
of the woods, where it occupies the place that the spermophiles do
on the prairies; and, though it burrows in open fields, and in the
timber, I am not aware that it ever lives on the prairie, though I
<span id="page83" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="83"/>
have seen it in the prairie groves.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
At the East, it inhabits open
fields in preference to the deep woods. This love for open ground
is probably acquired. Here, I have most commonly observed it in the
heaviest timber, and it is said to be found most abundantly in wood-lands
in Missouri.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It digs its burrow under a log, brush-heap, or
fence, or among rocks; and particularly delights in rocky bluffs.
River-banks are also its favorite resorts. At the East, dry pastures
and meadows are frequented, where it likes to dig its burrow under
a fence or stone-wall, with an opening on each side.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">This animal is fond of clover; and where it abounds, a clover
meadow is sure to be occupied by it, sometimes to the no small damage
of the crop, which it injures by treading it down around the
burrow. It is also very fond of peas, and never fails to visit a
pea-field situated near its retreat. Corn and other grain are sometimes
pulled down and eaten by it.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It is, however, only near the burrows
that it is seriously injurious, as, like the spermophiles, it leaves
these with great caution, and only for a short distance.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">When surprised away from home, this species always attempts to
retreat to its hole, running or moving by short and awkward jumps,
made apparently with much effort. It manages to get over the
ground with greater speed than might be expected, considering its
form, though a man can outrun one in a race by several rods.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It is
very watchful, and, when feeding, will frequently stand erect, with
the neck stretched as high as possible, and look suspiciously about.
It usually stands on the hind-feet, in feeding, as it frequently does
at other times.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">From four to six young are produced each season. These are
brought forth in the early part of summer, and, before fall,
leave the mother, to dig their own burrows and shift for themselves.
The female exhibits considerable affection for her young,
and seldom deserts them when in danger. The old males appear to
lead a solitary life, in summer, like the spermophiles, leaving the
family den to the female and young.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Only a single pair of adults
occupy the same burrow. The hibernation of the wood-chuck is as
profound as that of the spermophiles. Naturally, this animal is
strictly herbivorous. Though living in the woods, it does not eat nuts,
nor gnaw bark, nor am I aware that it ever digs roots.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It is not a
tree climber, though it sometimes crawls up a leaning tree, or into
the thick branches of bushes overgrown with vines, on which it is
fond of lying in warm sunny days. In this vicinity, I have often
found a number of them taking refuge in standing hollow trees,
entering a hole at the ground, and climbing up the cavity in the
manner of the grey-rabbit.</span></p>
    <p>When fat, which they usually are in autumn, wood-chucks are
esteemed by some as good eating, if properly cooked. They are
sometimes baked whole, or are better, if parboiled in milk, and afterwards
&#8220;potted down.&#8221;</p>
    <p>The fur of this animal is of no value, but the dressed hide is very
tough, and highly esteemed among the back-woodsmen for making
whip-lashes, money-pouches, and various other articles of use.</p>
  </section>
  
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>When Linnæus described this species, he named it <span class="taxon">Mus monax</span>, placing it in the genus <span class="taxon">Mus</span>, a sort of taxonomy dumping ground where he placed most rodents he described, figuring&#8212;correctly so&#8212;that it would get sorted out later.</p>
    <p>In <time>1780</time> Schreber defined the genus <span class="taxon">Arctomys</span> using this species as the type species for the genus, resulting in the binomial nomenclature <span class="taxon">Arctomys monax</span> used by the author of this article.</p>
    <p>Most of the species (but not all) that Schreber and others put into <span class="taxon">Arctomys</span> actually align with the genus <span class="taxon">Marmota</span> [Blumenbach, <time>1779</time>; <abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180136">180136</a>], described just a year prior. As the <span class="taxon">Arctomys</span> type species <span class="taxon">Arctomys monax</span> is one of the species that aligns with <span class="taxon">Marmota</span>, the genus <span class="taxon">Arctomys</span> is now considered to be a junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Marmota</span>.</p>
    <p><span class="taxon">Marmota monax</span> [Linnæus, <time>1758</time>] is the currently accepted binomial nomenclature for this species.</p>
    <hr class="half" />
    <p>This species is currently referred to using the common name &#8216;Groundhog&#8217;.</p>
    <p>For more information on the Groundhog, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 591: <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/3504364" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.2307/3504364</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180137" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 180137</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  
  
  
</section>
</body>
</html>