<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Introduction</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="intro.label">
  <span id="page52" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="52"/>
  <h1 id="intro.label">Introduction</h1>
  <p>However injurious wild animals may be to man, he should not
forget that he himself is very often the cause of their undue destructiveness.
When destroying his crops, they are only following the
instincts with which they have been endowed by the Creator.
Ruled by All-wise laws, every animal fills its appointed place
exactly, existing not alone for itself but forming a necessary part
of the vast system of Nature. One class of animals keep in check
certain plants; others prevent the too great increase of these, while
those having few enemies are not prolific. Man interferes unwisely,
and the order is broken. It is true that, to some extent, an interference
with the natural regulations of the animal creation is necessary
to the progress of civilization. Man appropriates to himself
the food of many animals, but as they continue to devour this
wherever found, he must therefore sometimes destroy them or lose
his property.</p>
  <p>But, before waging war upon any animal, let us study its habits,
and look well to the consequences which would follow its extermination.
We must remember that it is an undeniable fact, that the
dangerous increase of any species is due to the destruction of its
natural enemies; and, indeed, would we stop the ravages of a
vegetable-eating animal, the easiest and most certain way generally is
to encourage the increase of these ememies.</p>
  <p>But some men think animals unworthy of study, and do not know
the injurious from the beneficial. A farmer’s poultry have been
killed by some carnivorous mammals or birds, and he therefore
destroys every one of these, large or small, indiscriminately,
whether found about his farm-yard or out in the fields. Some birds
injure his crops, and so every bird that ever ate a grain of corn is
shot, while many, which are not known to do any harm, are killed
lest they should; and his boys are hence encouraged to destroy
blackbird’s nests, and they very naturally extend their destructiveness
to every other bird’s nest they can find. The meadow-mice
are injurious, and he accordingly wages war upon the shrews and
moles, which he confounds with the mice, or accuses of performing
their work. He knows some snakes are venomous, and so pronounces
all reptiles &#8220;deadly&#8221; and &#8220;horrible things,&#8221; to be dreaded
and destroyed. His crops are affected by insects, and he eagerly
kills the carnivorous species with the others. And then gnawing
mammals kill his trees and destroy his crops, and the insects
multiply alarmingly, and he wonders &#8220;why such worse than useless
creatures were created!&#8221;</p>
  <span id="page53" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="53"/>
  <p>A more careful study of animals would surely benefit our farmers.
I would earnestly commend the subject to their special consideration.
If they say they cannot spare time to watch the habits of
animals, then let them encourage their children to do so, not alone
that they may endeavor to learn, for practical purposes, the injurious
from the beneficial, but also because of the good influence produced
on mind and morals by the study of Nature&#8212;a study which
will become the source of much profit and pleasure, as soon as the
observer once begins earnestly to investigate Nature’s truths; and
the interest will increase in proportion to the knowledge gained.
Every farmer’s son and daughter should be naturalists; they have
the best of opportunities for it. A few minutes spent at the right
time would often reveal to them facts which naturalists have labored
days in vain to discover . Workmen in the field have frequently
passing under their eyes things which the naturalist would travel
miles to see; and they daily and hourly witness things it would
profit them much to observe. A farmer eagerly kills a harmless
snake, and thinks he has done well. But it is not so. Let him
examine its mouth, and he will find no [sic]
poison<sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup>
fangs there; and if
he opens its stomach, it will be found to contain only insects, or,
perhaps, meadow-mice. It takes but a moment to observe these
things, yet, if he uses well the knowledge gained in this moment,
it may prove to him of great value.</p>
  <p>Farmers must not suppose that, in order to study animals profitably,
they are obliged first to read scientific books. These are of
much importance, but not all that is to be observed. A knowledge
of the scientific names of species is of great value, enabling any one
to learn the habits of animals not well known from others, while the
imperative necessity for a system of scientific names in any extended
study of natural history is too apparent to need comment. Common
names may be used locally in conversation, or written, for want
of better; but numerous misapplications and errors are sure to
result. Farmers may be&#8212;and, to their credit be it said, many are&#8212;
well aquainted with the habits of the animals about them, even
though they know nothing of scientific names. These, however, by
careful observation, have learned to distinguish certainly and readily
each animal, and are not likely to consider moles, shrews, and
meadow-mice as one and the same.</p>
  <p>Let any farmer spend a few leisure half hours in observing the
habits of animals, and then ask himself if the time thus spent has
been wasted. True, he may not always have been in any way
pecuniarily benefitted; but many men now-a-days realize a desire
for knowledge whether that knowledge brings direct pecuniary
profit or not; and while years spent in studying the words of dead
languages, the fine arts, and man’s various creations, are taught to be
profitably used, might it not be well to devote a few hours to the
study of God’s language and fine arts, that their beauties too may
be appreciated and understood?</p>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
The correct term here is actually venom, not poison.</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>