<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Large-Tailed Fox-Squirrel</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="lt-squirrel.label">
  <span id="page55b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="55b"/>
  <h1 id="lt-squirrel.label">Large-Tailed Fox-Squirrel</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate5.xhtml#a">Plate <span title="five a">V.a</span></a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Sciurus magnicaudatus</span> [Harlan, <time>1825</time>]</li>
    <li><span class="taxon">Sciurus macrourus</span> [Say and Godman, <time>1823</time>]</li>
    <li><span class="taxon">Sciurus sayi</span>, and <span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> rubricaudatus</span> [Audubon and Bachman, <time>1851</time>]</li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;<span role="list"><span role="listitem">Form
  of large female in winter much stouter and heavier than that of the <span class="taxon">Sciurus migratorius</span>;</span>
        <span role="listitem">length from snout to root of tail, 12 inches;</span>
        <span role="listitem">tail, (vertebræ,) 10&#189; inches;</span>
        <span role="listitem">tail to end of longest hair, 14 inches;</span>
        <span role="listitem">hind-foot from heel to longest toe, 3 inches;</span>
        <span role="listitem">breadth of head between ears, 1&#190; inches;</span>
        <span role="listitem">girth behind the shoulders, 7 inches;</span>
        <span role="listitem">weight, 2 pounds and 2 ounces;</span>
        <span role="listitem">breadth across the tail, with the hairs in their natural position, as in life, 6 inches.</span>
        <span role="listitem">The outside of the ear is clothed with long hairs, which extend over three-eighths of an inch beyond the tip.</span>
        <span role="listitem">The rudimental thumb of the fore-foot is protected by a flat, blunt nail.</span>
        <span role="listitem">In this, as in other winter specimens of this species, the coat of fur is remarkably thick and warm.</span></span></p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p>The general color of the fox-squirrel is mixed, grey and black
above and reddish yellow below; the hairs on the back are bluish-black
at the base, broadly ringed with brown, more narrowly with
<span id="page56" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="56"/>
black, then with greyish-white, and slightly tipped with black; a
few hairs extend beyond the rest, the extra length of these being
entirely black. The hairs on the top of the tail have three black
and three light - brown rings alternately , broadly tipped with
reddish-yellow. On the sides and tip of the tail, the hairs are for
two thirds of their length reddish-yellow, then ringed once more
with black, and broadly tipped with darker reddish-yellow; on the
under surface of the tail, the hairs are entirely of a bright reddish-yellow.
Thus the under side of the tail is of a deep reddish-yellow,
surrounded by a distinct subterminal band of black, beyond which it
is edged with the color of the center; the upper surface of the tail
is mixed, brown and black, beautifully edged with a terminal band
of reddish-yellow. The cheeks, upper lips, the space around the
eyes, ears, feet, and entire under parts of the body and legs are of a
rich reddish-yellow. The hairs on the belly are ashen for a short
distance at the base. The whiskers are entirely black. The toes
and soles of the feet are also black; nails black tipped with white;
incisors deep reddish orange. One remarkable feature in this species
is that the bones are tinged with red. Summer specimens are
of lighter colors, with the hair much thinner and shorter, and
without the thick coat of long hair on the posterior surface of the
ear.</p>
    <p>With one exception, I have seen no distinct varieties of color in
this species. In some specimens, at different seasons, the color of
the underparts, however, grades from light-yellow to deep reddish-orange;
and a summer specimen, obtained in Missouri by <abbr>Dr.</abbr> P.
R. Hoy, of Racine, Wisconsin, has the under parts of a dark-rufous
cast. This specimen is also blacker than usual on the back, and
comes nearer to Audobon and Bachman’s figure of <span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> sayi</span>
than any other I have seen. This and other specimens of the two
extremes of coloring in other respects are alike.</p>
    <p>A variety of this species is occasionally met with in which the
tail and upper parts are of the usual colors, but with the entire
under parts of the body perfectly black. It has only been observed
in Southern Wisconsin and Northern Illinois.</p>
  <p>I have thus minutely described this squirrel because Audubon
and Bachman have, in their
&#8220;<span class="worktitle">Quadrupeds of North America</span>,&#8221;
made two species of it. It is undoubtedly the <span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> magnicaudatus</span>, of
Harlan, first described by Say, who unfortunately gave it a name
already belonging to another squirrel. Under the name of <span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> sayi</span>,
Audubon and Bachman have described a specimen of this species,
of unusually bright colors, their highly-colored figure exaggerating
the hue of the under parts to a bright orange-red, or ferruginous.
This they give as the &#8220;Great-tailed Squirrel&#8221; of Say, Godman,
and Harlan, and as being an abundant species in Illinois. But,
among hundreds of specimens both from Northern and Southern
Illinois, as well as from Michigan, Indiana, and Wisconsin,
examined in the Chicago markets and elsewhere, I never saw one
corresponding fully to the figure and description of <span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> sayi</span> given
by the authors named above. The figure and description of their
<span id="page57" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="57"/>
<span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> rubricaudatus</span>, were taken from a young specimen of this species
in summer pelage of rather light color.</p>
    <p>In its home at the West, this large and beautiful species is
universally known under the name of &#8220;Fox-squirrel,&#8221; and, though
other American species are also called by this name, it would be
useless now to attempt to apply another. This squirrel has been
observed throughout Illinois, in Southern Wisconsin, Eastern Iowa,
Southern Michigan, Western Indiana, and, according to <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy,
throughout the northern part of Missouri, as far as the Osage
River, at least, and in Eastern Kansas. I have also seen it from
Western Kentucky, where I am informed it abounds, as well as in
Southeastern Missouri, and it will probably be found in other States
further to the south and west. Captain Marcy saw a species he
supposed to be the <span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> magnicaudatus</span>
as far south as the Red River of
Louisiana. In
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">Northern Michigan,</span>
  <span role="listitem">Northern Wisconsin,</span>
  <span role="listitem">Northern Iowa,</span>
  <span role="listitem">and in Minnesota</span>
</span>,
I am informed it does not exist, and its
northern limit appears to be between the forty-third and forty-fifth
parallels of north latitude, though further north it is said to be
found in Eastern Michigan. Several specimens of this species have
been seen in Ohio, but their appearance is explained by the fact that
several individuals taken in Wisconsin, are known to have been
liberated in the same locality, some time before. It is very abundant
throughout Illinois, where, in some localities, it exists in
greater numbers than any other species.</p>
    <p>The fox-squirrel loves neither low lands nor deep woods; and,
though found living in the heavily-timbered districts of Indiana and
Illinois, it is less at home in these than in more open ground. It
is properly an inhabitant of the timber of the prairie regions, and
its favorite habitat is in the &#8220;oak openings&#8221; of Wisconsin and
Michigan, and the groves or edges of the belts of timber that skirt
the streams watering the prairies of Illinois. Since these river
belts and the prairie groves, or &#8220;Islands,&#8221; as the old settlers
appropriately termed them, have been protected from the fires that
formerly swept them annually, many young trees, especially pin-oak
(<span class="taxon">Quercus palustris</span>), in Northern Illinois have sprung up around
them at the edges of the prairie, forming ornamental clumps, that
are useful as protection against the sharp prairie winds&#8212;the more
so as the pin-oak retains its leaves during winter. These are favorite
haunts of the fox-squirrel, and whenever a hollow tree of larger
size stands in one of these outlaying groves, it will be the home of
a pair. In some localities in Northern Illinois, many young pin-oaks
are destroyed by having the bark stripped from the trunks and
larger branches which kills the tops. As neither the porcupine
nor any other bark-eating mammal which can climb, is found here,
and as this squirrel is known to frequent these young pin-oaks, the
guilt has been charged upon him without further evidence than this.
It is only within a few years that this extensive destruction of the
young oaks has been observed in this vicinity, and it is yearly
increasing, while the fox-squirrels are now less numerous than
formerly, and food is more abundant, as hogs do not now consume the
<span id="page58" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="58"/>
mast as they did several years ago. Though the tops of hundreds
of trees have thus been killed. I have observed none gnawed in
neighboring woods where the fox-squirrels are equally numerous.</p>
    <p>If this bark-gnawing increases and becomes general in this vicinity,
it will be a source of much damage, as the blighted tops of the
injured trees would sadly disfigure our beautiful prairie islands in
summer. To eat bark, would be a departure from the natural habits
of this animal, and, before the guilt of being the author of this
mischief can be justly fixed upon him, better proof must be produced. It
is not impossible that some bark-gnawing rodent, hitherto unnoticed,
may exist here.</p>
    <p>But the fox-squirrel is also charged with thieving from the corn-field;
and this accusation is supported by unimpeachable evidence.
More corn is destroyed by this species than is usually supposed, the
mischief being, without investigation, very generally charged upon
the raccoons. But any of our farmers, whose corn-fields are situated
in or adjoining to timber, inhabited by it, will find that, while the
corn is in milk, many ears are opened, and, if not eaten, much
injured, or destroyed, by exposure to the weather. The small-sized
marks of the squirrel’s cutting teeth in the husks, instead of those
made by the raccoon’s widely-separated canines, and the fact that
the corn is not torn down as it would be by a heavy animal, will
sufficiently prove to him that it is not the raccoon, alone, which does
the mischief. And, if he will watch carefully some day in his corn-field,
he will detect more than one red bushy tail, whisked incessantly
up and down, as its owner, clinging to a corn-stalk, makes a
delicious meal of the milky grains. Not only does he thus eat the
corn on the stalk, but he gnaws off whole ears, which are never
eaten on the ground, but always carried to the fence, or to a neighboring
tree, where, perched upon a flat rail or large limb, he
discusses them at his leisure. Sitting upon his hind-feet, he tears off
the husk and pulls out the kernels with his teeth; and, if the corn
is in the milk, all the soft part is eaten, but, when ripened, he often
lays down the ear, and holding the kernels in his paws, only gnaws
out the germ. Along fences, or under trees, situated in or near
corn-fields thus attacked by squirrels, husks, cobs, and partly-eaten
ears of corn may frequently be found. Sometimes, when squirrels
are molested, they do not stay near the field to eat the corn, but
carry the ears off to some distance in the woods. I am informed
that when the crop of mast is scanty, large corn fields have been
destroyed in parts of Illinois and Indiana by this, and one or the
other of the two species next to be described; while fields in these
localities are more or less injured every year, especially if bordered
by timber, or with a few old trees standing in them, in which the
squirrels can take refuge, as they venture with less fear into these
fields than into those at a distance from their congenial refuge. I
have observed, however, that the fox-squirrel will leave the immediate
vicinity of trees more readily than the other species. Like
other squirrels, it will run along fence to a much greater distance
from the woods than it will travel on the ground; and, when in the
<span id="page59" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="59"/>
woods, it will always run upon a log in preference to keeping upon
the ground.</p>
    <p>This, as well as several other true squirrels, will sometimes,
though rarely, dig up newly-planted corn; and at times it devours
wheat and also other grain. But, usually, the only considerable
injury it does the farmer is in the destruction of corn in the ear.</p>
    <p>In the woods, the food of the fox-squirrel consists almost entirely
of the nuts and seeds of trees, with the buds of some species, including
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">bass-wood,</span>
  <span role="listitem">elm,</span>
  <span role="listitem">and maple</span></span>.
In autumn, it eats the fruit of
various thorns (<span class="taxon">cratægus</span>); various berries are also eaten by it, and
it is said to be particularly fond of strawberries. In common with
other squirrels, it sometimes eats insects; and it has occasionally
been observed to gnaw the bark from dead trees, to procure beetles
and their larvæ. Like other squirrels, too, it has been seen to gnaw
through the bark of trees girdled in spring, to taste the decomposing
sap. So fond of this is it that fifteen or twenty [Sic] grey-squirrels
have been seen thus engaged upon a single oak, thus girdled.</p>
    <p>It is a common opinion that this and other squirrels carry
large hoards of nuts to hollow trees for consumption in winter. So
far as our three species, common in Illinois are concerned, this is
entirely erroneous. With the exception of the little &#8220;Chickaree,&#8221; no
true squirrel that I have observed ever collects food for winter in hollow
trees. A few nut shells are sometimes found in a squirrel’s hole,
but these are only such as he has taken there to be eaten at the
time. The fox-squirrel, with the migratory and Carolina squirrels,
also, as well as others probably, buries large quantities of nuts and
acorns under the leaves in autumn, for use in winter. These, however,
are not collected together, but concealed one in a place. In
winter, the squirrels dig them up; and, when the ground is covered
with snow, numerous holes will be seen where they have dug down
to get them. It is interesting to notice that they seldom dig through
the snow and leaves in this way without coming directly upon the
buried nut or acorn, and a common idea is that the animal &#8220;remembers&#8221;
the spot. This is highly improbable. It is more reasonable
to suppose that the animal is guided by the sense of smell. <abbr>Dr.</abbr>
Hoy tells me that he has seen squirrels run about with the nose
close to the snow or leaves, and finally dig directly upon a buried
nut without hesitation. He gives it as his opinion that they can
always smell the food, unless it is buried under very deep snow. I
am not aware that corn is thus stored for winter use. Though
many nuts and acorns are buried in this way, the fox squirrel, as
observed in Northern Illinois, at least, does not depend much upon
them for food, when the snow is deep, at which time it feeds chiefly
upon buds, searching carefully, also, for the few nuts, acorns, and
seeds which may have remained upon the trees, and for the dry
berries of the <span class="taxon">Celastrus scandens</span>, and other vines or shrubs.</p>
    <p><abbr>Mr. </abbr> Smiley Shepherd, of Hennepin, Illinois, in a letter containing
reliable account of the mammals of his region, informs me
that he has repeatedly observed where the fox-squirrels have carried
large numbers of nuts and deposited them securely in the forks of
<span id="page60" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="60"/>
small trees, their tracks being readily traced in the snow to where
the nuts had been recently dug out. This was observed in cold
weather, when the snow was deep. Unless <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Shepherd mistook
the work of wood-peckers and nut-hatches for that of squirrels&#8212;which
is hardly probable&#8212;this is an interesting fact with regard to
the habits of this squirrel.</p>
    <p>I have observed that, in digging nuts from under the leaves, in
winter, the fox-squirrel never remains upon the ground to eat them,
but carries them to a neighboring stump or log, or, more frequently,
to the low branches of some small tree, under which the shells are
found cut and broken into a number of pieces, instead of having
small linear openings cut through the thinnest part of the shell.</p>
    <p>The fox-squirrel is more solitary in its habits than the migratory
squirrel. More than two old ones are rarely, if ever, found living
together. In the summer and fall, the old males lead a solitary
life, as they sometimes do in winter. As soon as the young are
able to take care of themselves, the female usually drives them off,
when the old male, which has retired to a summer residence to
escape the discomfort attendant upon the rearing of a family, returns
to the winter-quarters and society of his chosen mate; for, usually,
this species is not polygamous. This squirrel often, if not generally,
builds several nests, each of which is sometimes a simple pile
of twigs and leaves placed in the forks of a tree, but at other times
is carefully and ingeniously constructed, being round, with the central
cavity quite roofed over, and a small entrance on one side. The
more carefully-formed nests are usually on tall trees, but temporary
habitations are frequently built on small trees, and within 20 feet
of the ground. After being driven off by the mother, the young
usually separate and lead a wandering life, for a time, at least.
They build nests wherever they stop, even for a day or two; and I
have several times observed individuals to appear in a grove of
young oaks, build a nest, remain a few days, and then disappear,
perhaps to return again in a week and build other nests.</p>
    <p>The fox-squirrel loves to take up his abode in a hollow tree which
stands out alone at a little distance from the surrounding timber, as
if desirous of having a clear view of all going on around him.
When he once becomes domiciled in a tree, he does not leave it,
unless disturbed, pairs being observed to inhabit the same tree for
five or six successive years. It is less prolific than either the
migratory or Carolina squirrel. From two to four young are usually
brought forth at a birth, the most common number being three; but
in one instance, I have seen five. Two litters are probably produced
each season. So far as has been observed, they are always brought
forth in the hole, the nests of leaves being only used as summer-houses.
Like the young of most rodents, they are ugly, unsymmetrical
little beings, at first, with monstrous heads and closed eyes;
and it is some time before they acquire the elegant proportions and
agile movements of their parents.</p>
    <p>These squirrels sometimes leave their holes for food, and even for
amusement, in very cold and rainy weather, when they are found
<span id="page61" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="61"/>
moving about much more than the migratory species. But, though
active at this time and apparently engaged in play, they do not now
&#8220;bark,&#8221; as on warm and pleasant days. Like other squirrels they
dislike to move about in windy weather, when the waving branches
make their highways among the tree-tops insecure.</p>
    <p>The old comparison, &#8220;As lively as a squirrel,&#8221; is not inapt, and
the fox-squirrel, like the other, exhibits remarkably active habits.
While the females and young are together, in early autumn, it is
amusing to watch the movements of a party on any pleasant day,
when their enjoyment of the abundant food and things in general is
testified by a degree of sprightliness and agility quite astonishing.
One afternoon, in September, by concealing myself near a large
hickory on which four or five were engaged in eating unripe nuts, I
had an opportunity of witnessing their movements without alarming
them. With surprising ease, one would run out upon a limb so slender
that it would bend beneath his weight, and, seizing a nut in his
teeth, he would pull it off and carry it back to a more secure seat on
a large branch, always returning to the same spot. Here, standing
upon his hind-feet in a posture nearly erect, and holding the nut in
his fore-paws, he first gnawed off the outer covering, and then cut
open the shell and devoured the kernel rapidly. Sometimes, in
attempting to pick a nut, one would drop it, when he would
invariably stop, turn his head on one side, and, with a provokingly
comical expression, watch its descent. They seldom remained quiet
for a minute at a time. If not eating, they would scamper up and
down, sometimes springing from limb to limb, with no other apparent
object than fun. Their long bushy tails were never kept still,
but continually jerked up and down. Occasionally, one would stop
for an instant, and utter a short bark, or chatter. One kept aloof
from the rest, and when approached by any of them in their play,
chased them off with an angry gutteral snarl. A movement at
length discovering me to them, some scampered further up the tree,
while one, after watching my partly-concealed form a moment, ran
down the trunk to within 20 feet of the ground and, spreading himself
out flat against the tree, with his head down and tail extended
straight behind him, barked at me with energy. He first uttered
several abrupt notes, <span class="vocalization">quak-quak</span>&#8212;and
then a long shrill <span class="vocalization">qua’a-a-a</span>,
the number of the short sounds varying, but always followed by the
long sharp <span class="vocalization">qua’a-a-a</span>.
At the repitition of each short note, he
jerked his body violently, and whisked up his tail slightly, giving
it a gracefully undulating motion. He continued to bark thus incessantly
for several minutes, until, at length, I exposed myself fully to
view, when he hastened to the opposite side of the tree, and ran to
the top, uttering a low chatter of affright.</p>
    <p>This species is usually more silent than the migratory squirrel;
and, if one of them hears any loud noise in the woods, it hides or
runs to its hole, instead of chattering at it, as the other often will;
though, while at work in a field near the summer home of an old
male, I have many a day been cheered by his merry
<span class="vocalization">quak-quck-qua’a-a-a</span>,
uttered for an hour at a time.</p>
    <span id="page62" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="62"/>
    <p>To use the words of the hunters, fox-squirrels &#8220;hole&#8221; more than
the migratory squirrels; that is, they keep more in holes, spending
less time in their nests of leaves, to which, however, they are fond
of retiring on sunny days late in autumn. At this time, I have
seen lazy hunters go about firing into the nests with shot guns,
calculating that the proportion containing squirrels would compensate
for the waste of ammunition fired at empty nests.</p>
    <p>I am not aware that this species has ever been known to migrate
in large companies, though some will occasionally move from place
to place singly, in search of food, as will the Carolina squirrel
and several others, besides the migratory squirrel. Several instances
are on record of a fox-squirrel crossing a prairie in summer four or
five miles in width, to reach timber upon the other side.</p>
    <p>This species, as if from living in more open woods, runs better
upon the ground than others. They venture a considerable distance
from their home, but when chased, they will even, if hard
pressed, run a long way upon the ground in the endeavor to reach
their hole, rather than take to the first tree, like other squirrels.
The tree attained, they never stop upon its branches, but run directly
into the hole. In the woods this squirrel is usually more shy than
any others that I have observed; at least, it will not expose itself as
boldly to any one seen by it. Yet it takes up its abode near dwellings
much oftener than the others; indeed, I know of no squirrel,
excepting perhaps the chickaree, that will live as near the habitations
of man as this. I have observed several instances in which
pairs of fox-squirrels have lived and reared young, for a number of
years, in trees situated within a few
rods<sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup>
of dwelling-houses; and,
in winter, I have seen these, as well as others from the woods, come
boldly about the farm-yard or corn-crib in search of food.</p>
    <p>For a figure of the fox-squirrel,
(<span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> cinereus</span>), of Pensylvania,
see <a href="plate5.xhtml#b">Plate V.b</a>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>At the beginning of this species section, the author references four binomial names in use at the time for the species being referenced.</p>
    <p>The author notes that both <span class="taxon">Sciurus sayi</span> and <span class="taxon">Sciurus rubricaudatus</span>  (both [Audubon and Bachman, 1851]) are junior synonyms to <span class="taxon">Sciurus magnicaudatus</span> [Harlan, <time>1825</time>]. The author further mentions that <span class="taxon">Sciurus macrourus</span> [Say and Goodman, <time>1823</time>] is an invalid senior synonym to <span class="taxon">Sciurus magnicaudatus</span>, leaving <span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> magnicaudatus</span> as the binomial nomenclature the author accepts.</p>
    <p>The author further distinguishes the subject of this species section from <span class="taxon">Sciurus cinereus</span> [Linnæus, <time>1758</time>] as two distinct species.</p>
    <p>In <span class="worktitle">Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 479</span> (published by the American Society of Mammalogists in <time>1994</time>) both <span class="taxon">Sciurus magnicaudatus</span> and <span class="taxon">Sciurus cinereus</span> are listed as a junior synomyns to the binomial <span class="taxon">Sciurus niger</span> [Linnæus, <time>1758</time>], with <span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> magnicaudatus</span> now a junior synonym to the subspecies trinomial <span class="taxon">Sciurus niger rufiventer</span> [<abbr>St.</abbr>-Hilaire, 1803] and <span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> cinereus</span> now a synonym to the subspecies trinomial <span class="taxon">Sciurus niger cinereus</span>.</p>
    <p>For more information on the current taxonomy of the Large-Tailed Fox-Squirrel, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 479: <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/3504263" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.2307/3504263</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=930496" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 930496</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
A rod is <em>approximately</em> five meters.</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>