<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Little Red-Squirrel</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="lred-squirrel.label">
  <span id="page67b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="67b"/>
  <h1 id="lred-squirrel.label">Little Red-Squirrel</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate7.xhtml#a">Plate <span title="seven a">VII.a</span></a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Sciurus hudsonicus</span> [Erxleben, <time>1777</time>]<sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup></li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;Length of adult male in winter,
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">from nose to root of tail, 8&#188; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail, (vertebræ,) 5&#8539; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail to end of hair, 6&#190; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">hind-foot, 1&#8542; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">breadth of tail with the hair in natural position, 1&#189; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">back, light greyish-brown, with a dorsal stripe of bright reddish-brown;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail, bright reddish-brown above, dingy-brown below, with a subterminal border of black;</span>
  <span role="listitem">under parts of head and body, pure white.</span>
</span>
This is full a third smaller than the migratory squirrel; the hairs clothing the body are much shorter, and
the tail less bushy. There are no distinct varieties though the colors of the
upper parts are sometimes&#8212;if not generally, at the East&#8212;much redder than
in the specimen here described, being without the dorsal stripe of a color so
different from that of the rest of the back. Other specimens from Ohio are
colored like that described.</p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p>This pretty and active little animal is well known through the
Northern States, under the names of
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Red-Squirrel,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Chickaree,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Pine Squirrel,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">and, sometimes, &#8220;Mountain Squirrel.&#8220;</span>
</span>
It is a
<span id="page68" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="68"/>
Northern species, but has a wide geographical range. It is found
abundantly throughout the Eastern and Middle States, and probably
exists as far to the northward as the pine and spruce occur. Southward,
in the Atlantic States, it is found in the mountains of Virginia,
and, according to Audubon and Bachman, it has even been
seen within North Carolina. In the interior, it abounds in Ohio
and Indiana, and is found sparingly in heavy timber in Illinois;
but it is not common, if it occurs at all, in the southern parts of
these States. West of the Mississippi, it has rarely been seen in
Northern Missouri. It is found in Central Iowa, and is abundant
in parts of Southeastern Minnesota, where, in fact, it is the only
species. About Lake Superior, in Northern Minnesota and Wisconsin,
where no other squirrel prevails, it is found in exceeding abundance.
It probably exists further to the west, but on the other side
of the Rocky Mountains it is replaced by other small species closely
resembling it.</p>
    <p>The natural home of this squirrel is in heavy timber on high land.
It is not found in the small, sparsely-timbered prairie groves, nor in
the oak openings. It loves to take up its residence among evergreens,
the cones of which form its favorite food, those of the black-spruce
particularly. In cultivated districts, it sometimes departs
from its natural habits. It becomes accustomed to man’s presence,
living sometimes in trees quite near dwellings, and frequently in
out-houses, in winter, when it comes fearlessly about the house and
corn-crib. It is attached to its home, and will not leave its favorite
tree unless much molested.</p>
    <p>Unlike any other of the true squirrels found here, this species
sometimes, but not generally, lives in holes in the ground. Unlike
the others, too, it collects into its hole in autumn an ample provision
of the good things of squirrel life, wherewith to console and sustain
itself in the uncomfortable season of frost and snow. It is well
known that the chickaree makes large hoards of nuts, acorns, and
seeds. These are deposited in hollow trees, and sometimes under
fallen logs, and even occasionally in holes in the ground. In
consequence of his good cheer, this squirrel is seen actively scampering
about in cold weather, when his hungry cousins cannot pluck up
courage to leave their warm abodes, even in search of food. In the
corn-field, his depredations are at times the source of much annoyance
to the farmer. Besides eating at the time with others, this
provident species is said to carry off corn to its hole for winter use.</p>
    <p>The red-squirrel runs with great swiftness; and though it cannot
leap as far as the migratory species, it darts along the trunk of a
tree much more rapidly. Its note is a merry, shrill <span class="vocalization">chir-r-r-r-r</span>,
very unlike the &#8220;bark&#8221; of the migratory and fox squirrels.</p>
    <p>Like the red-fox and some other animals, this squirrel appears in
some instances to follow the settlements of the white man. In parts
of Northern Illinois, where it was not seen formerly, it is now occasionally
found, and is increasing in numbers. <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Kirtland speaks
of it as having scarecely made its appearance, about the beginning
of the present century, on the Western Reserve, in Ohio, where it is
<span id="page69" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="69"/>
now exceedingly abundant. It may be, however, that this appearance
of the red squirrels in these localities, is the result of the
destruction of certain enemies. It is very certain that they were abundant
further to the west and north, before any settlements were made there.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>In <span class="worktitle">Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 586</span> (published by the American Society of Mammalogists in <time>1998</time>) <span class="taxon">Sciurus hudsonicus</span> is listed as a synonym for <span class="taxon">Tamiasciurus hudsonicus</span> [Erxleben, <time>1777</time>] indicating this species has been moved out of the genus <span class="taxon">Sciurus</span>. There are numerous described subspecies.</p>
    <p>For more information on the current taxonomy of the Little Red-Squirrel, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 586: <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/3504443" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.2307/3504443</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180166" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 180166</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
The author gave an incorrect spelling of <span class="taxon">Sciurus hudsonius</span> using the authority [Pennant]. Pennant did describe the species but did not give it a specific name, Erxleben assigned the specific name using the description by Pennant for the type. The mispelling used by the author was also used by Gmelin in <time>1788</time> and may be where the author got his spelling.</p>
<p>The correct spelling of <span class="taxon">Sciurus hudsonicus</span> with the correct authority [Erxleben, <time>1777</time>] is used in the article in place of the mistake.</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>