<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Long-Haired Meadow-Mouse</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chapter.label">
  <span id="page104b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="104b"/>
  <h1 id="chapter.label">Long-Haired Meadow-Mouse</h1>
  <p class="pages">pages 104b&#8211;105</p>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate13a.xhtml">Plate <span title="thirteen a">XIII.a</span></a>, <a href="plate13b.xhtml">Plate <span title="thirteen b">XIII.b</span></a>, <a href="photo19.xhtml">Photo 19</a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Arvicola riparius</span> [Ord, <time>1825</time>]<sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup></li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph"><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;<span role="list"><span role="listitem">Length
of head and body of the male in spring, 4 inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail, (vertebrae,) 1 inch;</span>
  <span role="listitem">hind-foot, &#8542; of an inch.</span>
</span>
The general color of the
upper parts resembles that of <span class="taxon">Arvicola austerus</span>, but there is no black tip to
the tail. The belly and under part of the tail are grayish-white. The
incisors are bright-orange. The fur on the back, as well as on the belly, is
much thicker and longer than that of the <span class="taxon">Arvicola austerus</span>.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
This species
may readily be distinguished from the preceding, by the different color of
the teeth and under parts, and the much longer tail and fur. The color of
the back varies sometimes, as it does in a specimen for which I am indebted
to Professor A. Winchell, of the Michigan University, the back of which is
of a rusty brown color; and <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy informs me that he has seen specimens
with similar coloring.</span></p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">This meadow-mouse abounds in Northern Illinois and Southern
Wisconsin, and has been taken in Michigan. <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy informs me
<span id="page105" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="105"/>
that he met with a few specimens near Lexington, in Lafayette
county, Missouri.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
The <span class="taxon">Arvicola riparius</span> is far less abundant in
this vicinity than the preceding. Among twenty or thirty specimens
of the <span class="taxon">Arvicola austerus</span>, taken in various localities in the
fields and on the prairies, in autumn, there were but two or three of
this species.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
<abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy informs me that, near Racine, they abound
in meadows, in the woods, burrowing under stumps and trees, in
situations never inhabited by the <span class="taxon">Arvicola austerus</span>, as well as on
the prairies; but, so far as has been observed, this species does not
inhabit heavy timber. It appears to be a prairie animal, though
sometimes found thus living in timber-lands. Inhabiting both high
and low-land, yet it shows no preference for wet places, as does the
species last described.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It is not numerous in fields in which the
<span class="taxon">Arvicola austerus</span> abounds, though existing in the greatest abundance
elsewhere. Considering this, and the greater strength and
pugnacity of the <span class="taxon">Arvicola austerus</span>, it seems probable that the latter
drives it off.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
The burrow of this species is very different from that
of the preceding, being simple and of slight extent. It appears
also to be more gregarious. I have, indeed, several times found
a half dozen or more inhabiting the same corn shock or potato heap.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">In captivity, this animal is less pugnacious than the
<span class="taxon">Arvicola austerus</span>;
but it is much more noisy also, crying out almost continually,
when several are eating together, or at all disturbed. The
voice is a harsh creaking squeal.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
The food and habits, so far as
observed, are, with the exceptions mentioned, the same in this as in
the preceding species.</span></p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p><span class="taxon">Arvicola riparius</span> [Ord, <time>1825</time>] is now considered to be a junior synonym of
<span class="taxon">Microtus pennsylvanicus</span> [Ord, <time>1815</time>]. Several subspecies are described, Illinois falls within the range of the nominate subspecies
<span class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> <abbr>p.</abbr> pennsylvanicus</span> [Ord, <time>1815</time>] although many no longer recognize the validity of any subspecies within <span class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> pennsylvanicus</span>.</p>
    <p>This species is currently referred to using the common name &#8216;Meadow Vole&#8217;.</p>
    <p>For more information on the Meadow Vole, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 159: <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/3503976" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.2307/3503976</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180297" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 180297</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
The author did not specify the authority for <span class="taxon">Arvicola riparius</span>. The correct authority of [Ord, <time>1825</time>] has been added.</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>