<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Long-Tailed Jumping Mouse</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="wfpm.label">
  <span id="page95b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="95b"/>
  <h1 id="wfpm.label">Long-Tailed Jumping Mouse</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate11.xhtml#b">Plate <span title="eleven b">XI.b</span></a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Jaculus labradorius</span> [Kerr, <time>1792</time>]</li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;This
<span class="taxon">Jaculus labradorius</span>, with several allied species, differs
materially from the true mice in form and habits. It is about 2&#189; inches long,
with the tail often twice that length, and always much longer than the body;
<span id="page96" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="96"/>
the hind-foot, from the heel to the end of the longest toe, is nearly 2 inches.
At the tip of the tail is usually a pencil of long hairs, though this is wanting
in some specimens. The body is of a dark-brown above, yellowish-brown on
the sides, and white, or at times rusty-white, on the under surface. The fore-legs
are small; but the hind-tarsi are very long, with the legs and thighs
large and muscular; which peculiar structure enables this little animal to
take leaps of almost incredible length. It travels in this way so rapidly
that a man must run fast to overtake it. I am informed that, when alarmed,
it has been seen to spring 8 or 10 feet at once. At times it travels by these
long leaps, when not disturbed; but it may also be seen walking or running
on all four feet.</p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p>This animal is known as the
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Long-tailed Deer Mouse,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Fob-tailed Mouse,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Kangaroo Mouse,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Jumping Mouse,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Buck Mouse,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Wood Mouse,&#8221;</span>
</span>
and other names, common also to the
<span class="taxon">Mus leucopus</span><sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup>,
from which it is usually distinguished by the prefix
of &#8220;long-tailed,&#8221; or &#8220;jumping.&#8221; It exists probably in the entire
northern part of the United States, as well as further to the northward.
In this vicinity, it is a much less abundant species than the
<span class="taxon">Mus leucopus</span>.
It is not very prolific, and is nowhere numerous.
In Northern Illinois, it is found in the deepest woods, as well as in
cultivated fields, and on the prairie at a distance from any timber.
In the woods, it is often found nesting in situations similar to those
occupied by <span class="taxon">Mus leucopus</span>.
It cannot climb, but crawls up the
inside of hollow trees to a considerable height from the ground, and
is sometimes found nesting in them; but its nest is often discovered
under the bark of rotten trees or stumps; and, though not much
noticed when inhabiting these situations, it appears frequently, if
not generally, to live in burrows in the ground, as it nearly always
does in the fields, and on the prairies, of course. It digs readily.
Its burrow in summer is not deep, and the nest is sometimes found
in a tuft of grass above the surface, or under an inverted sod. In
cultivated fields, it lives under fences, and, like the mice and arvicolæ,
takes up its abode in grain that has been cut and left standing out.</p>
    <p>The food of this species appears to consist chiefly of herbaceous
plants, with their seeds, and the seeds and nuts of trees, when it
inhabits the woods. In cultivated fields, it devours grain, of which
it has sometimes been observed to collect stores in its burrows. But
it does not appear to be very injurious to the farmer; and, as it
produces but few young, and has numerous enemies, it will probably
never increase so as to become a source of serious damage.</p>
    <p>The jumping mouse is so generally confounded with the <span class="taxon">Mus leucopus</span>
that its habits are seldom correctly known among farmers.
It is commonly believed to be active in winter, laying up a store of
provisions in autumn for consumption at that time. Nuts, grain,
and seeds, indeed, are found in its burrows, but they are collected,
apparently, at all seasons, as in the case of the prairie-squirrels.
That this animal hibernates is certain. Godman says that, &#8220;at the
commencement of cool weather, or about the time the frost sets in,
the jumping mice go into their winter-quarters, where they remain
<span id="page97" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="97"/>
in a torpid state.&#8221; <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy informs me that, when he was a boy,
in digging out a rabbit in winter, he found a pair of this species in
a state of profound torpor, exhibiting all the phenomena of perfect
hibernation. They were in a large nest of leaves situated two or
three feet below the surface. Audubon and Bachman, ignoring the
statement of Godman, say it is doubtful whether this species
hibernates. But the observations of so reliable a naturalist as <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy
are enough to settle the question, even if we discredit Godman’s
statement, which I see no sufficient reason for doing.</p>
    <p>The jumping mouse is nocturnal, but may be regarded as less
completely so than the white-footed mouse, as it has been occasionally
seen moving out voluntarily by day. It produces only from
two to four young at a birth, and, being a hibernating animal,
probably not over one or two litters in a year.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>The author neglected to specify an authority for the binomial name <span class="taxon">Jaculus labradorius</span>.</p>
    <p>Given both the specific name and the description the author gives, he is almost certainly referencing
<span class="taxon">Dipus labradorius</span> [Kerr, <time>1792</time>; <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=952140" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 952140</a>] which is now considered to be a junior synonym of
<span class="taxon">Zapus hudsonius</span> [Zimmermann, <time>1780</time>]. Several subspecies are described, Illinois falls within the range of the nominate subspecies
<span class="taxon"><abbr>Z.</abbr> <abbr>h.</abbr> hudsonius</span> [Zimmermann, <time>1780</time>].</p>
    <p>This species is currently referred to using the common name &#8216;Meadow Jumping Mouse&#8217;.</p>
    <p>For more information on the Meadow Jumping Mouse, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 11: <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/3504066" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.2307/3504066</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180386" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 180386</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
Currently referred to by the binomial name <span class="taxon">Peromyscus leucopus</span> [Rafinesque, <time>1818</time>].</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>