<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Meadow-Mice</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="meadowmice.label">
  <span id="page84" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="84"/>
  <h1 id="meadowmice.label">Meadow-Mice</h1>
  <p>Of Meadow-mice, we have many species, some being found in
nearly every part of the United States. They all resemble each
other; and, where several species are found in one locality, they are
commonly considered by farmers as one animal, known under various
names, as
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Short-tailed Field Rats or Mice,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Bear Mice,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Bull-headed Mice,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Ground Mice,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem">&#8220;Bog Mice,&#8221;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><abbr title="Et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>,</span>
</span>
while many persons call them &#8220;Moles,&#8221; though they are not in the least related to
that family. They are all of small size, with shorter and heavier
forms than the true mice; the eyes are small; the ears short and
mostly concealed by the fur, which is soft, thick and very generally
of a dark color on the upper parts; the head is large; the snout
blunt; and the tail short.</p>
  <p>The food and general habits of the different species are much alike,
though some prefer high, and others wet ground; while others
inhabit the woods, prairies, <abbr title="Et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr> All the species burrow, and none
climb trees. The common food of those I have observed is the
grasses and other herbaceous plants, their seeds and roots, and the
seeds and acorns, as well as the bark of trees, in the woods, with
grain and vegetables, when inhabiting cultivated fields. Some are
omnivorous as has been observed in their habits while in captivity.
To what extent they eat animal food, when at liberty, I am unable
to say, though it is probable that they consume some insects in
summer; and they may even obtain a few, with the
<a href="glossary.xhtml#pupa" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">pupae</a>
and eggs of
more, concealed in the grass, traversed by them in winter. Some
kinds, at least, lay up stores of food for winter. All are active at
this time, moving about in the coldest weather, and never hibernate
like marmots.</p>
  <p>One characteristic, certainly possessed by all the species in
common, is their ability to destroy the products of the farm. I know
of no mammals more injurious to the farmers in Northern Illinois
than these seemingly insignificant little meadow-mice. Few, if any,
escape their depredations, though the full amount of damage done
by them is but little known; and yet they are usually thought even
unworthy of consideration. Such of our farmers as cut their corn
and leave it standing in shocks for some time in the field, as is usually
done here, will find upon examination that in many, if not
every one of the shocks, there may be found one or more pair of
meadow-mice, which have dug for themselves burrows in the ground
beneath, and have often carried thither a store of corn; while in
these, or ensconced in the protecting corn-stalks above, they have
built themselves a nest, in which they can lead a very comfortable
sort of life, regaling themselves, when hungry, upon the corn.
Now, a pair of mice will not, it is true, eat enough corn to alarm a
farmer for the safety of his crop; but let any one examine a large
field of corn, thus cut and left standing on the ground a month or
<span id="page85" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="85"/>
two, where these mice abound, and carefully estimate the average
amount of corn destroyed in each shock, observing that which has
been buried in the burrow; and then multiply that by the number
of shocks inhabited by these pests, and it will be often found that
they have really consumed or destroyed a large amount. In meadows,
they do much injury by devouring the roots and stems of Timothy,
clover, and other plants used for hay. This mischief, however,
is seldom noticed by farmers; or, if it is at all, in districts where
moles abound, all the blame is laid upon them, as indeed, is very
much of the damage done by meadow-mice wherever the two exist
together. They also do great mischief by killing young plants in
grain-fields; and, soon after the seed is sown, they destroy many of
the grains, little stores of which may be found collected in shallow
excavations. These are often not eaten, and, germinating, astonish
and scandalize the farmer by the appearance of a thick clump of
plants where he thought he had sown his seed quite uniformly.
They also dig up grain that has just sprouted; and, by examining
fields of young wheat, oats, <abbr title="Et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, spots will be seen where they have
dug down, guided by the growing blades, and taken off the grain.
In a nursery, where apple-seeds were planted in autumn, I have
observed that, during fall and spring, so many of the seeds were
dug up by these mice as to leave long gaps in the rows of seedlings,
the empty shells of the seeds being found lying about the rows from
which they had been taken. They congregate in stacks of grain
and hay, sometimes in exceedingly great numbers, destroying all the
lower parts, by cutting galleries through them in every direction.</p>
  <p>The greatest mischief done by meadow-mice, is the gnawing of
bark from fruit-trees. The complaints are constant and grievous,
throughout the Northern States, of the destruction of orchard and
nursery trees by the various species of
<a href="glossary.xhtml#arvicolae" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">arvicolae</a>.
The entire damage
done by them in this way may be estimated, perhaps at millions of
dollars. If any think this too large an estimate, let them inquire,
even in a small neighborhood, where much attention is paid to fruit-growing,
and it will be found that, wherever they abound, the injuries
committed by these pests are frequently among the most serious
difficulties encountered by the
<a href="glossary.xhtml#pomologist" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">pomologist</a>.
This is especially the
case at the West, where no care is taken to protect the trees against
them, careless orchardists allowing grass to grow about the roots
of their fruit-trees, and thus kindly furnishing the arvicolae with
excellent nesting places, in winter, and rendering the trees doubly
liable to be
<a href="glossary.xhtml#girdle" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">girdled</a>.
In the nurseries, in Northern Illinois, I have
seen whole rows of young apple-trees stripped of their bark for a
foot or two above the ground. Thousands of fruit-trees, as well as
evergreens, and other ornamental trees and shrubs, are at times thus
killed in a nursery in one winter. The mice are the most mischievous
in winters of deep snow. It is usually thought that they only gnaw
bark when no other food is to be obtained; but it is more probable
that it is palatable to them at all times. Confined specimens,
while abundantly supplied with food of all kinds, ate the bark from
<span id="page86" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="86"/>
twigs placed in their cage. One reason why fruit-trees are most
girdled in times of deep snow is, that the meadow-mice can then
better move about, at a distance from their burrows, being protected
by the snow, under which they construct numerous pathways, and
are thus enabled to travel comfortably in search of food, always to
be obtained in abundance, where there is any kind of perennial grass,
or the seeds of annual plants. Aided by the snow, too, they climb
up at the sides of the trees to gnaw the bark at a considerable height
from the ground. Rabbits are often accused of gnawing bark from
trees, when the mischief has really been done by meadow-mice.
Many times, in spring, when a florist uncovers some choice plant he
has carefully protected during the winter by straw, <abbr title="Et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, he is grieved
and chagrined to find, instead of a fine dianthus, or half-hardy rose,
two nimble, black-eyed arvicolae, which have found good winter-quarters
in the shelter provided for the plant, that has furnished
them food. Not a little injury do they to vegetables of all kinds,
destroying young plants of peas, beans, cabbages, <abbr title="Et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, as well as
digging up seeds of all sorts, and gnawing potatoes, beets, and
other roots. In short, the catalogue of their depredations is endless.</p>
  <p>It is related that, some 40 or 50 years ago, a European meadow-mouse
(<span class="taxon">Arvicola agrestis</span>)<sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup>
was so numerous and destructive in parts
of England as to cause great damage and serious alarm, ruining
whole grain-fields, and threatening to destroy all the young trees in
the New Forest and Forest of Dean. In the latter, alone, no less
than thirty thousands of these animals were entrapped in three
months, while great numbers were killed by birds and beasts
of prey. This great increase was, beyond doubt, owing to the
destruction of the animals appointed to keep them in check; hence
let those of our farmers who, in their ignorance of Nature’s laws,
wantonly destroy them, beware, lest the arvicolae also multiply to
the same alarming extent in this country.</p>
  <p>Meadow-mice are very prolific, bringing forth young several times
a year, and usually as many as five or six at a birth. To check this
enormous increase, they have numerous natural destroyers. Though
mostly nocturnal, they are also active by day; and one of their
greatest enemies in this vicinity is the Northern Shrike, or butcher-bird,
(<span class="taxon">Lanius borealis</span>)<sup><a href="#footnote.2" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[2]</a></sup>,
the food of which consists almost wholly of
arvicolae and a few prairie white-footed mice
(<span class="taxon">Mus bairdii</span>)<sup><a href="#footnote.3" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[3]</a></sup>
during his sojourn with us, in his spring and fall migrations. This bird
takes his stand, day after day, upon the same tree or fence-stake,
and from this post surveys the surrounding fields, in which no mouse
may now show himself in safety. The result of the shrike’s watchfulness
and prowess may be seen, in part in the bodies of the numerous
mice, fastened to the branches of bushes or on fences, sometimes
partly eaten, sometimes having only the brains taken out, but
oftener entire. Considering what he has devoured, besides these,
the large numbers destroyed by the shrike may be readily supposed.
The Southern shrike
(<span class="taxon">Lanius ludovicianus</span>) which breeds largely in
the prairie districts throughout this State, is also an enemy to be
dreaded by the meadow-mice. Though feeding more upon insects
<span id="page87" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="87"/>
than its larger cousin, and being perhaps, a less successful mouser,
its destruction of arvicolae in summer is well known, and has gained
for it the name of &#8220;Mouse Bird,&#8221; in Central Illinois. This bird not
only pounces upon them when they are moving about but finds the
nests on the surface, and digs out the inmates with its bill and
claws. A domesticated brown sand-hill crane (<span class="taxon">Grus canadensis</span>)
which I kept for several years, spent much time in hunting about
the fields for the nests of meadow-mice. He became expert in finding
them; and, when they were situated upon or near the surface,
he would dig them out with his long and powerful beak, and, after
first killing all the inmates, proceed to swallow them whole, with
much apparent relish. In spring, I have seen him thus destroy several
families of old and young arvicolae in a day. Cranes are
omnivorous, and large feeders, and if all are as good mouse-catchers as
my pet, they must destroy great quantities on the prairie. The
owls, also, devour them to some extent, in timber, especially;
while the short-eared owl,
(<span class="taxon">Brachyotus cassinii</span><sup><a href="#footnote.4" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[4]</a></sup>,
of Brewer,) which is strictly a prairie bird here, feeds largely upon them. This owl is
diurnal, and may be seen flying low over the surface, in search of
meadow-mice, in broad day, both in winter and summer. The hawks
all prey upon them, too, from the little sparrow-hawk to the great
red-tailed buzzard. The marsh-hawk lives mostly upon them in
this region, and is observed sweeping along close to the ground
hunting for them in every field. <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy informs me that, near
Racine, he observed, in autumn, a flock of black-hawks
(<span class="taxon">Archibuteo sancti-joannis</span>)<sup><a href="#footnote.5" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[5]</a></sup>
twenty or thirty in number, to frequent a high
knoll to which numerous meadow-mice had been driven by the
inundation of the surrounding low-lands. This they visited morning
and evening for over a month, during which time they appeared to
feed upon nothing else than meadow-mice. One of them, shot late
in autumn, was exceedingly fat, and had the remains of four
full-grown arvicolae in his stomach. <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy estimated the number
destroyed by the flock in six weeks, at over eight thousand. He
says that they form the chief food of this hawk in the West, and
that it should be regarded as a friend to the farmer, the more so as
it does not make predatory descents upon the farm-yard. Arvicolae
are the legitimate food for the prairie rattlesnake, or massasauga
(<span class="taxon">Crotalophorus tergeminus</span>)<sup><a href="#footnote.6" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[6]</a></sup>.
In many specimens of this snake examined,
I have not found one, the stomach of which did not contain
the remains of meadow-mice. The rattlesnake can readily enter
their burrows, and is certainly more or less nocturnal; so that the
arvicolae, when out at night, fall an easy prey to this voracious
reptile, which, though noted for its ability to endure wonderful fasts,
even of a year or more, in captivity, is, nevertheless, a huge feeder
naturally. I have taken the partly-digested bodies of five adult
arvicolae, with the remains of two small garter-snakes, and some
birds’ feathers, from the stomach of a rattlesnake; and have repeatedly
found the remains of several mice, in various stages of digestion,
in the stomach of one of them, showing that they had been
caught at different times. And, I would here remark, that I have
<span id="page88" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="88"/>
little faith in the opinion popular among farmers that rattlesnakes
eat only at long intervals from choice. Observations indicates the
contrary. Meadow-mice are also devoured by the common large-striped,
or garter-snake, (<span class="taxon">Eutœnia sirtalis</span>)<sup><a href="#footnote.7" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[7]</a></sup>,
and are undoubtedly eaten by another garter-snake,
(<span class="taxon">Eutœnia radix</span>)<sup><a href="#footnote.8" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[8]</a></sup>,
and of the large fox-snake
(<span class="taxon">Scotophis vulpinus</span>)<sup><a href="#footnote.9" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[9]</a></sup>.
All the larger snakes probably prey
upon them in other localities. The most abundant species of arvicolae,
in this region, are inhabitants of the prairie, and have less to
fear from the small timber-loving carnivorous mammals, than those
living in the woods. Minks, skunks, and weasels, however, when
inhabiting the prairie, devour many; foxes, also, eat them, and prairie
wolves<sup><a href="#footnote.10" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[10]</a></sup>
dig open their burrows and feed largely upon them.
Badgers, no doubt, also destroy many. As stated, in noticing the
striped spermophile, that animal makes many a meal upon them,
as well, perhaps, as Franklin’s spermophile. Domestic cats hunt
them eagerly, eating them in preference to house-mice. It is to be
observed that the flesh of the arvicolae is sweet and delicate, without
the disagreeable flavor of the house mice, being, in fact, quite palatable.
Judging from the astonishingly savage and carnivorous
propensities exhibited by some specimens, in confinement, it is highly
probable that, where abundant, they may frequently devour each
other. After the annual fires have burned the grass on the prairies,
numerous nests of the arvicolae may be found on the ground, the
inmates of which, unable to escape, have often been killed, furnishing
a feast to the many hawks, owls, <abbr title="Et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>,
which flock to those grand barbecues.</p>
  <p>In spite of all this destruction, arvicolae are abundant on the wild
prairie. With their exceeding
<a href="glossary.xhtml#fecundity" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">fecundity</a>,
how much greater must
be their increase in cultivated land, where most of their natural
enemies are destroyed. Our farmers kill the small birds of prey
with a zeal that would be highly commendable if exhibited in a
better cause, while the man is rarely found who does not kill the
harmless mouse and insect-eating snakes, with as much eagerness
as he would destroy the really objectionable rattlesnake, which is the
only [Sic] poisonous<sup><a href="#footnote.11" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[11]</a></sup>
reptile on the prairies of Illinois and other Western States.</p>
  <p>Let one of our prairie farmers, who regard these pests as
&#8220;inoffensive little mice that only steal a few kernels of corn,&#8221; investigate
their habits carefully for a year, and he will be very apt to conclude
that meadow-mice are a kind of farm stock that are &#8220;hardy and
excellent breeders,&#8221; but rather expensive &#8220;to keep.&#8221; It may be,
he will think it best to forbid killing, too, on his farm, the prairie
hawks, owls, and shrikes, as well as harmless snakes. This he
will be still more apt to do, if he has observed, as I have, that,
besides mice, the food of these is chiefly insects. I would ask any
observing farmer if the ungrateful and foolish destruction of those
friends of agriculture is not a disgrace to a community calling itself
civilized and enlightened?</p>
  <span id="page89" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="89"/>
  <p>The protection of such of their natural enemies as are not themselves
too mischievous should, be the first care of farmers injured
by arvicolae. Any dog, which can be taught to hunt them, will
scratch and destroy great numbers. I have observed dogs which
were encouraged, to spend most of their time, day after day, in
hunting their burrows, and thus quite ridding fields of them for
the time. On farms, where there is no grain left out in autumn,
they will collect under little bunches of hay placed for the purpose,
especially if baited with an ear or two of damaged corn; and, by
examining these occasionally, with the assistance of a dog, many
may be killed. Any farmer with young sons who exhibit a
predilection for the &#8220;chase,&#8221; should furnish them with a lot of common
mouse-traps to be bought at the cost of a few cents apiece; and,
thus equipped, the juvenile &#8220;sportsman&#8221; will often &#8220;bag&#8221; large
quantities of this &#8220;game,&#8221; and be doing far better, withal, than
some of their older brothers, who, perhaps, are wasting more costly
ammunition, meanwhile, in shooting useful birds.</p>
  <p>To wage war effectually against these, or any other of the
animals the depredations of which should be resisted, farmers must
work together, all in a neighborhood, taking measures for one to
destroy the injurious insects or mammals, and protect the reptiles,
birds, and carnivorous quadrupeds, which are the enemies of the
depredators on a small farm, if his neighbors on every side pursue
an opposite course.</p>
  <p>A little care will frequently prevent much of the destruction
caused by arvicolae. Farmers inform me that, by putting into long,
rather than short shocks, the corn to be left out, it escapes much
injury, these animals apparently foreseeing that it would not, in
this form, afford them sufficient protection in winter. In preparing
half-hardy plants for winter, in gardens infested with arvicolae, straw
should not be used. Inverted sods, placed over tender roses, <abbr title="Et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>,
pegged flat to the ground, do not furnish the meadow-mice a resting
place; and, as it is not the extreme cold that kills plants in winter,
but rather the exposure to wet, and sudden changes in temperature,
this method is often better, under any circumstances, than covering
them with straw. Arvicolae are always most injurious on farms
grown up with weeds, which furnish them resting places and food,
at times when they could not otherwise remain, as it is to be
observed that they do not burrow on bare ground. Hence, small
patches of grass, in large and well-cultivated fields, will always be
found full of their burrows, in regions where they prevail. The
greatest injury committed by them is the girdling of fruit-trees;
and here their ravages may often be prevented merely by clearing
away all grass and weeds from about the roots. But it must be
remembered, that they will travel under the snow, on clear ground,
to some distance from their burrows; and, therefore, if possible, no
uncultivated spots should be allowed within several rods of the trees,
on farms much infested by them. I have observed hundreds of
apple-trees girdled, in a nursery kept free of weeds, but situated
within three or four rods of unbroken prairie inhabited by these pests.</p>
  <span id="page90" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="90"/>
  <p>Wrapping the trunks of fruit-trees with strips of muslin, so
arranged as to shed rain, may at times be advisable; the same cloth
being applied every fall, and removed in spring, will last several
years. It is said that neither mice nor rabbits will gnaw through
it when thus applied; but dipping it in tar no doubt would be
beneficial.</p>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
Currently referred to by the binomial name <span class="taxon">Microtus agrestis</span> [Linnaeus, <time>1761</time>].</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 2" id="footnote.2" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[2]
Currently referred to by the binomial name <span class="taxon">Lanius excubitor</span> [Linnaeus, <time>1758</time>].</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 3" id="footnote.3" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[3]
Currently referred to by the binomial name <span class="taxon">Peromyscus maniculatus</span> [Wagner, <time>1845</time>].</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 4" id="footnote.4" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[4]
I suspect the author is referring to <span class="taxon">Asio flammeus</span> [Pontoppidan, 1763].</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 5" id="footnote.5" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[5]
Currently referred to by the binomial name <span class="taxon">Buteo lagopus</span> [Pontoppidan, <time>1763</time>].</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 6" id="footnote.6" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[6]
Currently referred to by the binomial name <span class="taxon">Sistrus catenatus</span> [Rafinesque, <time>1818</time>].</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 7" id="footnote.7" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[7]
Currently referred to by the binomial name <span class="taxon">Thamnophis sirtalis</span> [Linnaeus, <time>1758</time>].</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 8" id="footnote.8" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[8]
Currently referred to by the binomial name <span class="taxon">Thamnophis radix</span> [Baird and Girard, <time>1853</time>].</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 9" id="footnote.9" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[9]
Currently referred to by the binomial name <span class="taxon">Pantherophis vulpinus</span> [Baird and Girard, <time>1853</time>].</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 10" id="footnote.10" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[10]
The &#8216;Prairie Wolf&#8217; is the Coyote (<span class="taxon">Canis latrans</span>) [Say, <time>1823</time>].</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 11" id="footnote.11" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[11]
The correct term here is venomous.</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>