<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Migratory, or Common Gray and Black-Squirrel</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chapter.label">
  <span id="page62b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="62b"/>
  <h1 id="chapter.label">Migratory, or Common Gray- and Black-Squirrel</h1>
  <p class="pages">pages 62b&#8211;65</p>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate6a.xhtml">Plate <span title="six a">VI.a</span></a>, <a href="photo4.xhtml">Photo 4</a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Sciurus migratorius</span> [Audubon and Bachman, <time>1851</time>]</li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph"><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;The
adult male measures about 12 inches from the nose to the
root of the tail; vertebrae of the tail, 10&#189; inches. In color, there are two
very different varieties of this species commonly met with. One is of a
blackish-brown on the upper parts, lighter beneath and with some rusty markings
on the feet and face. The other is of a gray color, with reddish-yellow
markings about the head, belly, sides, and feet.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
These two varieties are
commonly considered among our farmers, as distinct species, and are respectively
called the &#8220;gray&#8221; and &#8220;black&#8221; squirrel; but any one living in the woods
may, by a little observation, satisfy himself of their identity as one species,
<span id="page63" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="63"/>
and the females will be found to bring forth specimens of both varieties at one
birth, and the two live and breed together without regard to color.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
They
are now known under the two very different names of the &#8220;black&#8221; and the
&#8220;gray&#8221; squirrel; but while there are other black and gray-squirrels, would
it not be better for our farmers to adopt the highly appropriate name of the
&#8220;migratory squirrel&#8221; for this species&#8212;the more so as Audubon and Bachman
have, with good taste, given this as its specific name?</span></p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p>The gray squirrel is the most abundant, and, it is said, sometimes
exists in great numbers where none of the black ones are found.
The black variety, however, is sometimes, though rarely, the most
numerous in certain localities. In a lot of near fifty, shot near
the Rock River in Illinois, there was not a single gray one, all
being of the black variety.</p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">In the northern states, the migratory squirrel replaces the
<span class="taxon">Sciurus carolinensis</span>,
of the South. It exists throughout the Eastern, Middle
and in some of the western states, and is said by Audubon and
Bachman to be found as far north as Hudson’s Bay. In Illinois, it
exists only in the northern part of the state, being replaced by the
Carolina gray-squirrel in the South.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It exists abundantly in Northern
Illinois, Southern Wisconsin, and Central Iowa, but to the
northward, I am informed by <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Spear B. Davis, of Shakepee,
Scott county, Minnesota, that it is not observed in the southeastern
portion of that Territory. I learn from <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy that it does not
exist in Northern Wisconsin. Audubon and Bachman, however,
mention its being found on the Upper Missouri.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">This is the most abundant of our American squirrels. It has a
wide geographical range, and is prolific, and in many localities
exists in almost incredible abundance. The immense numbers,
heretofore mentioned as killed in one year for the bounty offered by
Pennsylvania, were chiefly of this species. In Northern Ohio, I
have seen them in such numbers as to to be truly astonishing. <abbr>Dr.</abbr>
Hoy relates that he knew a hunter in that state to kill one hundred
and sixty in a day, and that, too, when they were not unusually
abundant in the locality. In parts of Michigan, Illinois, Southern
Wisconsin, and Indiana, they are no less numerous.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Existing in
such myriads, their depredations, of course, become at times a source
of serious damage to the farmer. Fields of corn, and occasionally
wheat, are much injured or entirely destroyed by them. I am
informed that persons have sometimes kept watch in their fields to
drive them off, and thus prevent the destruction of the whole crop.
This species appears to increase in numbers, in certain districts, for
a time after their settlement.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The migratory squirrel is at home both in low, heavy timber, and
higher and somewhat more open woods, though it loves the heavily-timbered,
elevated ground best. It never frequents the outskirts of
the woods, of which the fox-squirrel is so fond, and does not affect
oak openings, nor the prairie groves, unless well timbered.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
This is
one of the most active of our squirrels, and, when out in fine weather,
and not engaged in feeding, may be seen scampering about the trees,
as if much exercise were necessary to its existence. It leaves the
<span id="page64" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="64"/>
trees unwillingly, and in its progress, travels as much as possible
upon fallen logs in the woods, and on fences in the fields. It does
not run readily upon the ground, and, when pursued, if possible,
soon takes to a tree.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The most interesting feature in the habits of this animal is the
remarkable migration performed at times by large bodies of them.
I am not aware that any of these extensive migrations have been
observed in Northern Illinois, but in the neighboring states of
Wisconsin and Michigan, and in other localities where the species
abounds, they not uncommonly occur.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Immense numbers congregate
in autumn, and move off together, continuing their progress in
the same general direction, whatever it may be, not even turning
aside for large streams. Ordinarily averse to to entering the water,
they now take to it boldly, and, though swimming with difficulty,
manage to cross broad rivers, like the Niagara and the Ohio, though
many are drowned in the attempt. The vulgar notion that squirrels,
in crossing water, &#8220;are ferried over on bits of wood and bark,
using their tails for sails,&#8221; is, it is, perhaps, needless to say,
entirely fabulous.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Sometimes, when on these migrations, especially after
crossing rivers, the squirrels become so fatigued as to be easily captured,
and thousands are then killed by boys armed merely with
sticks and stones. I learn from <abbr>Dr.</abbr> John A. Kennicott that, during
one of these migrations, innumerable squirrels swam across the
river Niagara, and landed near Buffalo, New York, in such a state
of exhaustion that the boys caught them in their hands, or knocked
them from fences and bushes with poles.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It must not be supposed,
however that the squirrels, in these migrations, rush ahead
without stopping, or turning to the right or left for food. Better
would it be for some unhappy farmers if such were the case, for ill
fare the corn fields which they visit. Generally, they are observed
to make their appearance in unusual abundance, running along the
fences, and up every tree; and, though they may often go out of
their way to follow a fence, or to enter the woods, in preference to
crossing open ground, or even to stay some time in one locality, they
are always tending forward more or less rapidly in one direction.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The reason for these migrations is not satisfactorily explained.
That they are caused by want of food is hardly probable, as the
squirrels are found to be fat at the time, and as often leave localities
abounding with food as otherwise.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
After one of these grand migrations,
very few of the species are found in the localities from which
they have moved, and these, as if alarmed at the unusual solitude,
are silent and shy. They rapidly increase in numbers, however, and,
in a few years, are as abundant as before. I am not aware that they
ever migrate except when exceedingly abundant.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Of these immense
hordes, but few probably survive. No sudden increase in their numbers
was heard of in Southern Wisconsin after the several migrations
from Northern Illinois. Many are drowned in attempting to
cross streams as has been stated; not a few are destroyed by man;
some die from utter exhaustion; and, when thus forced to travel, in
an unnatural manner, upon the ground, they fall an easy prey to
<span id="page65" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="65"/>
rapacious birds and mammals, all of which feast when the squirrels
migrate.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
I learn from <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy, that one of these migrations
is said to have taken place in Southern Wisconsin in <time>1842</time>; he
witnessed another in <time>1847</time>, and a third in <time>1852</time>.
From these facts, and,
from observations made in Ohio and elsewhere, he is of the opinion
that the migrations, in most cases, at least, occur at intervals of five
years; and, if he be right, the squirrels, which are now exceedingly
abundant again in Southern Wisconsin, may be expected to migrate
in the autumn of <time>1857</time>. He further says, that the migrations
observed by him, in Southern Wisconsin, occurred when the mast was
exceedingly abundant and the squirrels in excellent condition.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Near
Racine, they were observed passing southward in very large numbers
for about two weeks, at the end of September and the beginning of
October; and it was a month before all had passed. They moved
along rather leisurely, stopping to feed in the fields, and upon the
abundant nuts and acorns of the forests. So far had they departed
from their accustomed habits that they were seen on the prairie, four
or five miles from any timber; but even there, as usual, they disliked
to travel on the ground, and ran along the fences wherever it was
possible.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The food of these squirrels is similar to that of the fox-squirrel.
They are also very fond of the berries of the black-haw
(<span class="taxon">Viburnum lentago</span>).</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
They are more prolific than the other species, from four
to six young being produced at a birth; two and perhaps three litters
are brought forth each year, the first quite early, generally in
March. The gravid female is very shy and silent, keeping close in
the hole, and venturing out for food with caution.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The migratory squirrel is somewhat social; several will feed
together, and five or six occasionally inhabit one hole in winter.
Where not much hunted, it is noisy and bold. Frequently, when a
dog barks or a gun is discharged in the woods where they abound,
dozens of them will commence barking in every direction.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
They do
not love the neighborhood of man, and though they much affect the
fruits of the farmer’s labor in the corn field, when they can steal it
without coming too near the house, they will not take up their
residence near his dwellings.</span></p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>In <span class="worktitle">Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 480</span> (published by the American Society of Mammalogists in <time>1994</time>), the binomial name <span class="taxon">Sciurus migratorius</span> [Audubon and Bachman, <time>1851</time>] is listed as a junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Sciurus carolinensis</span> [Gmelin, 1788].</p>
    <p>Based upon where Illinois, Pennsylvania, and Buffallo fall within the range map provided in that same article, the squirrels in those locations referenced by the author using the binomial name <span class="taxon">Sciurus migratorius</span> is the subspecies currently known by the trinomial name
<span class="taxon">Sciurus carolinensis pennsylvanicus</span> [Ord in Guthrie, 1815] and the squirrels in Wisconsin referenced by the author using the binomial name <span class="taxon">Sciurus migratorius</span> is the subspecies currently known by the trinomial name
<span class="taxon">Sciurus carolinensis hypophaeus</span> [Merriam, 1886].
    </p>
    <hr class="half" />
    <p>This species is currently referred to using the common name &#8216;Eastern Gray Squirrel&#8217;. Although multiple subspecies are recognized, common names at the subspecies level do not appear to be used in most current literature.</p>
    <p>For more information on the Eastern Gray Squirrel, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 480: <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/3504224" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.2307/3504224</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=930435" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 930435</a> (<span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> <abbr>c.</abbr> pennsylvanicus</span>)</li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=930434" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 930434</a> (<span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> <abbr>c.</abbr> hypophaeus</span>)</li>
    </ul>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>