<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>True Rats and Mice</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chapter.label">
  <span id="page108b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="108b"/>
  <h1 id="chapter.label">True Rats and Mice</h1>
  <p class="pages">pages 108b&#8211;110</p>
  <p>The species of the old genus <span class="taxon">Mus</span> are numerous, and all very
prolific. Three have been introduced, throughout the civilized world,
<span id="page109" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="109"/>
by commerce. Departing entirely from what must have been their
original mode of life, these have taken up their residence permanently
in the dwellings of man, rendering themselves highly obnoxious
by their mischievous habits.</p>
  <section id="housemouse" aria-labelledby="housemouse.label">
    <h2 id="housemouse.label">Common House-Mouse</h2>
    <ul class="authoritylist">
      <li><span class="taxon">Mus musculus</span> [Linnaeus, <time>1758</time>]</li>
    </ul>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">This is not a native species, but has been introduced from Europe.
Whence it first came is not known. It always follows civilized man.
Its habits and depredations in the house are too well known to need
comment.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
In Illinois, I have found it breeding and living throughout
the year in the fields, in considerable numbers. It digs burrows,
sometimes in the open ground, at others under corn shocks,
or other shelter, and there collects its store of food, thus assuming
the habits of the field mouse, when adopting its home in the fields.</span></p>
  </section>
  <section id="brownrat" aria-labelledby="brownrat.label">
    <h2 id="brownrat.label">Brown-Rat</h2>
    <ul class="authoritylist">
      <li><span class="taxon">Mus decumanus</span> [Pallas, <time>1779</time>]</li>
    </ul>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">This exceedingly troublesome animal is said to have been a native
of Persia. It is only within the present century that it has been
introduced into this country or Europe. It has spread with such
rapidity that it is now abundant throughout all the long-settled portions
of the Union, though it is only within a few years that it has
been known in our recently-settled and interior prairie regions; and
in some parts of which, indeed, it has not yet made its appearance
at all.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It often lives in the fields, like the preceding, and excavates
large burrows under corn shocks, <abbr title="Et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>,
into one of which a pair will sometimes carry a full half bushel of shelled corn.
In its burrow, it makes a large nest of the soft corn husks and silks, or of grass.</span></p>
    <p>Farmers are occasionally surprised by the sudden and entire
disappearance of the brown-rats from their houses, where they were
abundant a short time before; but, upon making inquiry in such
cases, they may also find that some of their neighbors are quite as
much surprised, and considerably more annoyed, at the equally
sudden appearance of large numbers on their premises; and these
migrations are by no means unfrequent.</p>
    <p>For figure of the wood-rat (<span class="taxon">Neotoma floridana</span>)<sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup> of the southern states, see
<a href="plate14.xhtml#b">Plate <span title="fourteen b">XIV.b</span></a>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="blackrat" aria-labelledby="blackrat.label">
    <span id="page110" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="110"/>
    <h2 id="blackrat.label">Black-Rat</h2>
    <p class="subtitle">[<a href="photo23.xhtml">Photo 23</a>]</p>
    <ul class="authoritylist">
      <li><span class="taxon">Mus rattus</span> [Linnaeus, <time>1758</time>]</li>
    </ul>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">This species, which seems to have been introduced originally from
Asia, has been known in Europe and America much longer than
the brown-rat, before which it always disappears.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
The black-rat
was once abundant in parts of the United States, but is now unknown
in many localities where it formerly bred. I believe it has rarely
been found in a few localities in this region, the brown-rat having
apparently found its way here before it.</span></p>
    <p>Like the two preceding species, this is omnivorous, feeding upon
almost any kind of vegetable or flesh. Both rats devour eggs, and
even capture living animals, with all the ferocity of strictly
carnivorous species.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>The binomial nomenclature <span class="taxon">Mus musculus</span> [Linnaeus, <time>1758</time>] used by the author is still valid.</p>
    <p>In <time>1803</time>, Fisher described the genus <span class="taxon">Rattus</span> to distinguish old-world rats from old-world mice.</p>
    <p>The binomial nomenclature <span class="taxon">Mus decumanus</span> [Pallas, <time>1779</time>] has been invalidated as a junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Rattus norvegicus</span> [Berkenhout, <time>1769</time>].</p>
    <p>The binomial nomenclature <span class="taxon">Mus rattus</span> [Linnaeus, <time>1758</time>] is invalid, with the species having been moved into the genus <span class="taxon">Rattus</span>. It is thus currently known as <span class="taxon">Rattus rattus</span> [Linnaeus, <time>1758</time>].</p>
  </section>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
I am a bit puzzled as to why this plate was included in the original article.</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>