<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Muskrat</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="chapter.label">
  <span id="page105b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="105b"/>
  <h1 id="chapter.label">Muskrat</h1>
  <p class="pages">pages 105b&#8211;108</p>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate14a.xhtml">Plate <span title="fourteen a">XIV.a</span></a>, <a href="photo20.xhtml">Photo 20</a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Fiber zibethicus</span> [Linnaeus, <time>1766</time>]</li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;A full-grown muskrat is about 15 inches in length, from nose
to root of tail, and the tail is 10 inches. The body is heavy, eyes small, ears
concealed, and incisor teeth large; the tail large, nearly naked, and flattened
laterally; legs, short, hind-feet, with the toes flattened and partly palmated;
beneath the long hair is a coat of dense, soft and very warm fur; color of
the body, ashy-brown above, ashy on the underparts.</p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The muskrat, or &#8220;Musquash,&#8221; abounds in the greater part of
North America, though not in certain of the southeastern states.
It is found northward to the Polar Sea.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
It is strictly aquatic, its
stout tail and muscular hind-legs, being provided with broad feet
and toes, furnish it efficient means of locomotion in the water, while
its thick, downy fur protects it from the wet. On land, its movements
are as awkward as those of a duck. It naturally seeks its
food in the water, away from which it never takes up its abode.</span></p>
    <span id="page106" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="106"/>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">Though frequently seen abroad by day, muskrats are nocturnal,
moving mostly by night. They are to some extent gregarious, a
number uniting to make houses and burrows.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
In most localities,
where the situation admits of it, they construct houses in the water
with much skill; in marshes and ponds, or along sluggish streams,
when protected from the current, they form large piles of sticks,
leaves, rushes, carices, and various aquatic plants, the whole well
stuck together with mud, and having a comfortable chamber in the
center, entered only through a hole from below the surface of the
water.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
This is the winter home of muskrats, more than one
pair usually occupying the same nest. Near by, in the bank, is
generally a burrow, with numerous and extensive galleries, in which
they take refuge when driven from their houses in winter, and in
which the young are commonly produced. These burrows, like the
houses, always have the entrance under water.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">The muskrat is active in winter, seeking his food under the ice,
and carrying it into its burrow or house to be eaten. Though
roots are sometimes found in a nest in winter, they are only such as
have been recently brought in, no considerable stores of food being
collected.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
The food, in winter, appears to consist of roots of aquatic
plants. In summer, it also feeds upon the leaves of various plants,
as well as upon muscles,
(<span class="taxon">Unio anodonta</span> and <span class="taxon"><abbr>U.</abbr> plicatus</span>,
<abbr title="Et cetera">etc.</abbr>,)<sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup> of
which they consume great quantities in some of our rivers. Collecting
them from the bottom, it carries them in its teeth to a log or
stone, where, sitting upon its haunches, and grasping them in the
fore-paws, it opens the shells with the incisors as skillfully as it
could be done with an oyster-knife.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
In this way, large piles of
shells are collected around stones and logs, by examining which the
<a href="glossary.xhtml#conchologist" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">conchologist</a>
may often find rare species, brought from the mud
by these animals which have been more successful collectors than
himself.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
I have observed that those species with thin shells are
most sought for, and have often found large specimens of
<span class="taxon">Unio plicatus</span>
unopened among the piles of empty shells, the muskrat
apparently considering them not worth the trouble of gnawing apart
the valves at the back, in which manner the heavy shells are
sometimes opened.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">Muskrats are seldom seriously injurious to the farmer’s crops,
though they are occasionally mischievous in fields adjoining water
inhabited by them. I have observed ears of corn dragged to their
nests, and they sometimes make great havoc in vegetable gardens
where they show an especial fondness for parsnips and muskmelons.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Their greatest injury, however, is committed by burrowing in
embankments formed to confine water,
<a href="glossary.xhtml#milldam" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">milldams</a>
being often much
damaged in this way. They also frequently destroy artificial ponds
for collecting ice.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Except in eating mollusks, and occasionally a
dead fish, I am not aware that this species departs from a vegetable diet.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">This species is pugnacious, and resists courageously when attacked.
The males sometimes have fierce battles, and trappers state that the
tail is occasionally mutilated, or cut entirely off in these combats.
<span id="page107" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="107"/></span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
The voice is a sharp squeak, and some hunters will call the males
within shooting distance by imitating it.
From five to seven young&#8212;more or less&#8212;are produced in April or May.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
In this region,
at least, the muskrat’s worst enemy is the mink, which, swimming
and diving readily, not only enters their burrows and houses, but
pursues them in the water. The mink does not find an easy prey,
as the muskrats fight savagely; but, emboldened by hunger, he
finally kills his victim, when he does not scruple to devour the whole
body. Otters probably kill them, also, as they are occasionally
found in muskrat houses.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">Upon land, the muskrats are easily captured by various mammals
and rapacious birds. They are readily trapped, as they are not at
all suspicious, which operation, in former times, furnished many a
youth with pocket-money, while older hunters made it their chief
occupation.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
A steel-trap, baited with pieces of parsnip, or of sweet
apple is generally used; or sometimes a trap without bait is placed
in their runways.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
In winter, they are caught by driving a long-pronged
spear through the tops of their houses into their nest, where
they are lying together, several being frequently transfixed at a
blow from a spear provided with several prongs. The
<a href="glossary.xhtml#indigenous_peoples" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">indigenous peoples</a>
killed them thus, even with their traditional stone-headed spears.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Sometimes they are shot, when sitting on the ice on sunny days in
winter, or while swimming about, or basking on logs, in spring.
In our Western rivers and lakelets, they are occasionally shot by
hunters, who paddle silently about in canoes on moonlight nights.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">Muskrat skins have been a considerable item in the commerce of
America. Formerly, when the fur was largely used for napping
&#8220;beaver hats,&#8221; so called, they were of greater value than at present,
being then worth more than the skin of mink, selling, indeed,
for from 40 to 50 cents<sup><a href="#footnote.2" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[2]</a></sup> each.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Changes in the fashions of late years,
including the general introduction of silk hats, have resulted happily
for the persecuted muskrats, and for the last ten or twenty years
their skins have sold from 8 to 15 cents<sup><a href="#footnote.3" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[3]</a></sup> cents each,
and even as low as 6&#188; cents; and trapping them has in a measure ceased.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Within
the last year or two, however, they have sold for somewhat better
prices, being now largely used for making caps, gloves, and some
articles of ladies’ furs.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">In Northern Illinois, the muskrat has not been so long persecuted
by man, and therefore has not learned to fear his presence so
much as in longer-settled regions. It is accordingly oftener seen out
by day here than in the older states, where, in some localities, it is
said to be almost strictly nocturnal, and exceedingly shy withal.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Here they may not only be found feeding by day, but even at work,
building their houses; and, while hunting ducks along the Des
Plaines River, I have frequently shot them in broad day, as they
sat upon logs at the water’s edge.</span></p>
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">In place of the living brooks and creeks, which drain wooded and
uneven lands, we have here, on our level prairies, numerous broad
and shallow depressions, that carry off the surplus water in rainy
times, becoming dry in summer, except in places where they are
<span id="page108" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="108"/>
deeper and form large basins in which the body of water is so great
as to hold out, despite the evaporation in ordinary seasons, while
some are constantly supplied by springs, and never become dry.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
In
these prairie water-courses and ponds, or
sloughs<sup><a href="#footnote.author" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[&#9830;]</a></sup>,
as they are called,
the muskrats were very abundant twenty years ago; but, though
still occasionally seen in the larger ones, and numerous in some,
their numbers are very small compared with their former abundance.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
In the sloughs, their houses were built like those in wooded rivers
or marshes. They usually had burrows in the dry land at the edge
of the sloughs, and when there was no spot nearer, sufficiently
elevated to be above high water, a burrow would be dug at some
distance&#8212;sometimes 15 or 20 rods&#8212;from the edge of the slough, and
approached by a gallery excavated the entire distance under the sod.
Some, in very wide marshes, appeared to have no burrows, living
always in their large nests.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Though the young are generally brought
forth in burrows, they were often found in the houses in the sloughs,
only one female, however, remaining in a house.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
The sloughs
inhabited by them being of no great depth, and often dried up in
summer, or frozen to the bottom in winter, the muskrats were
frequently found wandering about in search of water; and even lately
I have, in dry summers, occasionally found them on the prairie at
great distances from water.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
Since the prairies have been settled and
cultivated, the muskrats are generally observed living permanently
only in large marshes, lakelets, and streams; they seem quite as
much at home, however, in these, when situated on the prairie, as
when in the timber; and old trappers assure me that they have never
seen &#8220;rat&#8221; more abundant than they have been on the prairies of
Northern Illinois.</span></p>
    <p>The Potawatomi Tribe call the muskrat <span class="otherlang">zheshko</span>; they eat
the flesh, when boiled with corn or roasted, or cooked in various
ways. The hunters and trappers consider the hind-quarters very
palatable, when roasted on coals; and they, as well as the Potawatomi,
esteem the tail a great delicacy.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>This species was originally described as
<span class="taxon">Castor zibethicus</span> [Linnaeus, <time>1766</time>]. The genus
<span class="taxon">Fiber</span> [Dumeril, <time>1805</time>; <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=900101"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 900101</a>] used by the author is now considered to be a homonyn and junior synonym of <span class="taxon">Castor</span>. However, the species is now the type species for the monotypic genus
<span class="taxon">Ondatra</span> [Link, <time>1795</time>; <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180317"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 180317</a>] resulting in the binomial name
<span class="taxon">Ondatra zibethicus</span> [Linnaeus, <time>1766</time>] as the currently used binomial nomenclature. Numerous subspecies have been described but many do not currently accept them as valid.</p>
    <p>For more information on the Muskrat, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 141: <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/3504016" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.2307/3504016</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180318" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 180318</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Author Footnote" id="footnote.author" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">[&#9830;]
This is pronounced <span class="vocalization">sloos</span>, in our Western vernacular, and <span class="vocalization">slows</span>,
by Walker and Webster.
They are called &#8220;sloughs,&#8221; as well when slight depressions, containing water only after
rain, or when large marshes. Thus, a slough, on high prairie, may have a solid, grassy
bottom, or it may be miry and filled with bulrushes and other strictly aquatic plants, the
name not being restricted to muddy and miry places, as the word &#8220;slough&#8221; would
indicate in its original sense.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
The Potawatomi Tribe called a slough <span class="otherlang">wabskoki</span>, a wet
prairie; a very large one they called <span class="otherlang">chi wabskoki</span>, big wet prairie;
and an extensive, marshy water-course, which forms the chief source of the north branch of the Chicago
River, is here very generally known as the &#8220;Sko-kee.&#8221;</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
The prairie sloughs are the favorite homes of many animals and plants, some of which seem peculiar to them.</span></p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
These binomial names do not appear to be valid, and I am not certain which muscle species the author was referencing.</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 2" id="footnote.2" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[2]
Roughly $12.00 to $15.00 in <time>2020</time> money.</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 3" id="footnote.3" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[3]
Roughly $2.50 to $4.50 in <time>2020</time> money.</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>