<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>List of Photographs</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body>
<section  epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="chapter.label">
  <h1 id="chapter.label">Needed Photographs</h1>
  <p>This is a list of quality high resolution photographs needed to complete this project. Any help would be appreciated.</p>
  <p>The photographs <em>must</em> have a license that is compatible with the Creative Commons <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode" title="Internet Resource">BY-SA 4.0</a> license use for this digital publication.</p>
  <p>I can be contacted at <a href="mailto:pipfroschpress@gmail.com">pipfroschpress@gmail.com</a></p>
  <div role="navigation" aria-label="navigation">
    <ol>
      <li><a href="#efs">Eastern Fox Squirrel</a></li>
      <li><a href="#black">Melanistic Western Fox Squirrel</a></li>
      <li><a href="#red">Red Squirrel</a></li>
      <li><a href="#sfs">Southern Flying Squirrel</a></li>
      <li><a href="#wfm">White-footed Mouse</a></li>
      <li><a href="#deer">Deer Mouse</a></li>
      <li><a href="#mjm">Meadow Jumping Mouse</a></li>
      <li><a href="#pvole">Prairie Vole</a></li>
      <li><a href="#wvole">Woodland Vole</a></li>
      <li><a href="#hmouse">House Mouse</a></li>
      <li><a href="#brownrat">Brown Rat</a></li>
      <li><a href="#blackrat">Black Rat</a></li>
    </ol>
  </div>
  <section id="efs" aria-labelledby="efs.label">
    <h2 id="efs.label">Eastern Fox Squirrel</h2>
    <p>Specifically needed is a photograph of <span class="taxon">Sciurus niger vulpinus</span>.</p>
    <p>Photographs I have found online claiming to be this subspecies that could potentially used either have a stated locale outside the range of this subspecies, or do not state a locale and look suspiciously like <span class="taxon">Sciurus niger rufiventer</span>.</p>
    <p>This squirrel use to be present in the southen part of Pennsylvania but apparently is either exceedingly rare there now, or has been extirpated.</p>
    <p>It is reportedly still present within six counties of North Carolina at the northern end of the Blue Mountain range, and also in Virgina west of the Blue Mountains.</p>
    <p>My preference would be from North Carolina part of the range in a state park away from heavy urban areas, as <span class="taxon">Sciurus niger rufiventer</span> is often introduced in urban areas. There are several state parks there, I am guessing one of them has a healthy population.</p>
    <p>See <a href="https://www.ncwildlife.org/Portals/0/Learning/documents/Profiles/Mammals/Fox_Squirrel.pdf" title="Intenet Resource">Fox Squirrel&#8212;North Carolina Wildlife Profiles</a> (<abbr>PDF</abbr>) for a range map.</p>
    <p>Note that two subspecies of <span class="taxon">Sciurus niger</span> are in North Carolina. <span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> <abbr>n.</abbr> vulpinus</span> is the smaller range shown on the map, where North Carolina hits Tennessee and Virginia.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="black" aria-labelledby="black.label">
    <h2 id="black.label">Melanistic Western Fox Squirrel</h2>
    <p>I need a photograph of a Melanistic (black) squirrel that is unquestionably a Western Fox Squirrel (<span class="taxon">Sciurus niger rufiventer</span>) and not a Gray Squirrel (<span class="taxon">Sciurus carolinensis</span>).</p>
    <p>Preferably this would be within the range of <span class="taxon">Sciurus niger rufiventer</span> but <strong>outside</strong> the range of <span class="taxon">Sciurus carolinensis</span>.</p>
    <p>This photograph would replace <a href="photo5.xhtml">Photo 5</a> which is not positively identified at the species level and which I suspect is actually <span class="taxon">Sciurus carolinensis</span>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="red" aria-labelledby="red.label">
    <h2 id="red.label">Red Squirrel</h2>
    <p>I need a photograph of <span class="taxon">Tamiasciurus hudsonicus</span> from Illinois or Wisconsin.</p>
    <p>The photograph I have is beautiful but it is from Alaska, which is not exactly the western Great Lakes region.</p>
    <p>This photograph would replace <a href="photo7.xhtml">Photo 7</a>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="sfs" aria-labelledby="sfs.label">
    <h2 id="sfs.label">Southern Flying Squirrel</h2>
    <p>Preferably from Illinois or Wisconsin, I need to have a quality photograph of <span class="taxon">Glaucomys volans</span>.</p>
    <p>Given the highly nocturnal nature of this species and the desire for the gliding membrane to be exposed, a posed taxidermy specimen may be what is required, but please do not kill one for that purpose. Hopefully a natural history museum that allows photographs has one.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="wfm" aria-labelledby="wfm.label">
    <h2 id="wfm.label">White-footed Mouse</h2>
    <p>Preferably from Illinois or Wisconsin, I need a quality photograph of <span class="taxon">Peromyscus leucopus</span>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="deer" aria-labelledby="deer.label">
    <h2 id="deer.label">Deer Mouse</h2>
    <p>From within Illinois or Wisconsin, I need a quality photograph of <span class="taxon">Peromyscus maniculatus</span>.</p>
    <p>The existing photograph is from Arizona and it is quite possible a future taxonomy review will reveal it to be a different species than what is in Illinois.</p>
    <p>Even if that never happens, the species can be quite variable and I would prefer to have a photograph representative of the western Great Lakes region.</p>
    <p>This photograph would replace <a href="photo15.xhtml">Photo 15</a>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="mjm" aria-labelledby="mjm.label">
    <h2 id="mjm.label">Meadow Jumping Mouse</h2>
    <p>Preferably from Illinois or Wisconsin, I need a quality photograph of <span class="taxon">Zapus hudsonius</span>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pvole" aria-labelledby="pvole.label">
    <h2 id="pvole.label">Prairie Vole</h2>
    <p>Preferably from Illinois or Wisconsin, I need a quality photograph of <span class="taxon">Microtus ochrogaster</span>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="wvole" aria-labelledby="wvole.label">
    <h2 id="wvole.label">Woodland Vole</h2>
    <p>Preferably from Illinois or Wisconsin, I need a quality photograph of <span class="taxon">Microtus pinetorum</span>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="hmouse" aria-labelledby="hmouse.label">
    <h2 id="hmouse.label">House Mouse</h2>
    <p>Locality does not matter but it should be alive, wild (opposed to domestic pet variety), and in a natural setting. I need a quality photograph of <span class="taxon">Mus musculus</span>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="brownrat" aria-labelledby="brownrat.label">
    <h2 id="brownrat.label">Brown Rat</h2>
    <p>Locality does not matter but it should be alive, wild (opposed to domestic pet variety), and in a natural setting. I need a quality photograph of <span class="taxon">Rattus norvegicus</span>.</p>
    <p>The photograph <em>must</em> include the full tail length as that is an easy identification key when distinguishing this species from <span class="taxon">Rattus rattus</span>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="blackrat" aria-labelledby="blackrat.label">
    <h2 id="blackrat.label">Black Rat</h2>
    <p>Locality does not matter but it should be alive, wild (opposed to domestic pet variety), and in a natural setting. I need a quality photograph of <span class="taxon">Rattus rattus</span>. The existing photograph is of a posed taxidermied specimen.</p>
    <p>The photograph <em>must</em> include the full tail length as that is an easy identification key when distinguishing this species from <span class="taxon">Rattus norvegicus</span>.</p>
    <p>This photograph would replace <a href="photo23.xhtml">Photo 23</a>.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>