<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" ssml:alphabet="ipa">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Prairie Meadow-Mouse</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="pmm.label">
  <span id="page97b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="97b"/>
  <h1 id="pmm.label">Prairie Meadow-Mouse</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate12.xhtml#a">Plate <span title="twelve a">XII.a</span></a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Arvicola austerus</span> [Le Conte, <time>1853</time>]</li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;<span role="list"><span role="listitem">Length of head and body of old male in November, 4&#189; inches
from nose to root of tail;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail, (vertebrae,) 1&#188; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">hind-foot thirteen-sixteenths of an inch, from heel to tip of longest toe.</span>
</span>
On the back, the
hairs are deep blue-black at the base, then ringed with cinnamon-brown, and
tipped with blackish, a few long hairs, entirely black, interspersed; on the
head and along the back, the color is darker. Low on the sides and cheeks
the hairs are all tipped with cinnamon-brown, without rings, as they are on
the belly also, where they are shorter and thinner, and of a bluish-gray color
at the base, thus leaving the belly bluish-gray, tinted with cinnamon. Tail
and feet, thinly clothed with short hairs; tail, brownish-gray beneath, blackish
above; feet, grayish; whiskers, shorter than the head, some entirely black,
others white, with black roots; incisors, clear light lemon-color. The old
male in spring, differs from the above, in having less black along the head
and back, with very little cinnamon on the belly, while around the root of
the tail there is a spot of dark-cinnamon. In this species the belly is usually
more or less colored with cinnamon. Summer specimens from Wisconsin
have the hair on the belly all tipped with light rusty-yellow. The young
are very dark above, with more distinct cinnamon-color on the belly in the
young of some specimens than in the adults.</p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p>On the prairies in Northern Illinois and Southern Wisconsin, the
<span class="taxon">Arvicola austerus</span> exists in greater abundance than any other native
mammal, and far exceeds in numbers the other species of arvicolae
found here. The extent of its distribution is not yet known, but it
will probably be found throughout the neighboring prairie regions.
It never has, within my knowledge, been found in the woods. It
frequents both dry and wet land, preferring the latter. In summer,
these animals inhabit low, wet prairies, in great numbers, digging
<span id="page98" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="98"/>
burrows and forming nests in them, as well as on the ground among
the grass. In autumn, they retire to higher ground, to spend the
winter, being driven out of their summer homes by the heavy fall
rains. Their winter burrows on the uncultivated prairie are often
in old ant-hills, or, if not, the earth thrown out of them forms little
hillocks. They are not very deep, seldom over six inches or a foot,
but are remarkable for the numerous and complicated chambers and
side-passages of which they are composed. In one of these chambers,
considerably enlarged, is placed the nest, formed of fine, dry
grass. It is globular, from four to six inches in diameter, and with
but a small cavity in the center, which is entered by a very narrow
opening on one side. This burrow and nest are occupied in winter,
and in it at least the first litter of young is produced in spring; but,
in the summer and fall, these meadow-mice may be found in similar
nests in the grass above ground, in which the young are often, if
not usually, brought forth. Nests formed under the snow in winter
are also occupied by them. From the burrows, innumerable runways
traverse the neighborhood, intersecting those from other burrows,
thus forming a complete network so that often scarcely a
square yard can be found in an acre not crossed by one or more of
these tracks. The runways of one pair may sometimes be traced
five or ten rods on every side. These roads are not only formed for
use in winter, when the ground is covered with snow, but are also
employed as highways in summer. They are made above ground,
by pressing down and gnawing off the grass, and the earth is often
worn quite smooth and bare in those most used. The inhabitants
can travel easily along them at all times, in search of food, being
well concealed by the overarching grass. In Winter, these paths are
formed on the ground, under the snow, as well as in the grass.
The mice do not inhabit prairie pastures, where the grass is eaten
close and affords them no cover.</p>
    <p>This species is exceedingly prolific. Five young are most
commonly produced at birth; but the number varies from three to six.
They are brought forth from early in April till October; and,
in one instance, I found suckling young in the middle of November.
Of the number of litters produced in a year, I am unable to form a
certain estimate. The young, though not generally found attached
to the mother’s teats, as is the case with some other species, are at
times observed in that situation; and a female was seen to carry
three half-grown young a distance of several feet in this manner.
As soon as they are able to take care of themselves, they leave the
mother. In summer, the old males do not live with the females and
young, but are generally with the females in spring, although an
old male has been found in November with a female and her suckling
young.</p>
    <p>In their home on the prairie, the natural food of these animals is
the grasses, with their roots and seeds, as well as those of some
other plants. Various roots, indeed, form the largest portion, and
usually comprise the store of provisions collected for their winter
subsistence.</p>
    <span id="page99" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="99"/>
    <p><abbr>Mr.</abbr>
<span ssml:ph="/dʒoʊb/">Job</span>
Galloway, of Northfield, informs me that, while mowing
in a low prairie, inhabited during summer by this species, he observed
a small garter-snake passing rapidly through the grass, with
a young meadow-mouse, partly swallowed, in its mouth. The low
squeak uttered by the latter attracted his attention. Presently, an
old meadow-mouse emerged from the tall grass in pursuit of the
snake. Stopping an instant, as if to listen for the cry of her young,
she again pursued, and finally overtook the snake, which she unhesitatingly
attacked. The snake stopped, disgorged his prey, and
defended himself by striking his assailant, which appeared to be
beating him, when he was killed by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Galloway.</p>
    <p>Upon examining, in November, the burrow of a pair of these
meadow-mice, situated on the wild prairie, I found the excavation
to have been recently enlarged. The nest was placed near the center
of the burrow; and at one side, and in the deepest part of the
excavation, was the store of winter provisions. This consisted of
5 or 6 quarts of roots, chiefly the round tubers of two species of
spike-flower (<span class="taxon">Liatris</span>),
which grow abundantly in the vicinity, with
a few roots of <span class="taxon">Helianthus</span>, and various grasses, and several bulbs
of wild onions. By tracing carefully the numerous and extensive
paths which run in every direction from the burrow, I observed where
the inmates had procured their food. The large fleshy root of the
rosin-weed, or compass-pant,
(<span class="taxon">Silphium laciniatum</span>), appeared to
have been eaten very freely in autumn, at least. The root of this
interesting prairie plant is sometimes a foot in length, and an inch
or two in diameter at the top. To obtain it, they had burrowed
down alongside, quite to the bottom, eating out the entire soft parts.
Though so much eaten, none of it was found in their burrows.</p>
    <p>The prairie meadow-mouse is not a gregarious animal naturally;
and, when more than one pair is found together in fields, it is
where they have all been alike attracted by the food and shelter
offered by the situation. Though their burrows are sometimes quite
near each other on the prairies, this is only when they are very
abundant. Two pairs never occupy the same hole.</p>
    <p>In cultivated fields, the habits of this species are somewhat changed.
When corn fields are near, they flock to them in autumn in great
abundance; and, wherever a corn shock is to be found, a pair takes
possession of it, digging under it a more simple burrow than in the
prairie or meadows. Besides the nest in this burrow, another is
formed among the corn stalks, above or at the surface of the ground,
and is chiefly occupied during mild weather, the inmates retiring
to the burrow in extreme cold. Frequently a corn shock will be
temporarily inhabited by those having burrows at some distance.
A quantity of corn is carried into the winter burrow under the shock,
in spring, as well as in autumn, in compliance with the inclination
to collect stores of food at all seasons.</p>
    <p>By looking in the fields the day next following the fall of snow, in
November, I had an opportunity to observe something of what these
arvicolae had been doing in the night. As there was scarcely an
inch of snow, they had not generally travelled under it, as they do
<span id="page100" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="100"/>
when it is deeper, by pushing it aside, mole-like, at the surface of
the ground, but had moved on top, leaving their plain tracks. In
a field containing shocks of corn, they could be traced not only to
the shocks they inhabited, but to all others. Some were traced to
burrows into which they had carried large stores of corn taken from
shocks several yards distant, and others could be tracked for ten or
fifteen rods across the field, to where they had entered the grass at
the edge of the prairie, having come from their burrows to feed upon
the corn. Wherever there was grass or weeds, though only two or
three inches high, they had moved under it, in preference to going
on top; and even on clear ground, where the snow was drifted to
the depth of two or three inches, they had passed beneath, leaving
it unbroken above. This illustrates, not only the smoothness of
their gliding motions, but also their disinclination to travel by
springing over high objects. In moving over plowed ground,
they did not jump clear across from one ridge of the furrow to the
other, but ran part of the way down one side and up on the other.
When traveling on the open ground, they moved by short
jumps of from four to eight inches. Sometimes, they ran or trotted,
appearing always to move in this way in their runways in the grass;
and, in fact, this is the gait most natural to them. When caged
specimens are liberated on a smooth surface, they glide off at this
gait with great rapidity, never jumping, but rather running around
small objects; though, on the whole, they show more activity than
their forms would seem to indicate, springing readily to some distance
when so disposed.</p>
    <p>I have often kept specimens of this species in cages for a short
time. They soon became reconciled to confinement, and took food
from my hands. When placed in wooden boxes, they generally
made no attempt to gnaw out, though, when they did begin to use
their teeth in this manner, they would sometimes cut their way
through an inch of board.</p>
    <p>In confinement, they ate all kinds of grain and vegetables, including
the bark of the apple, pine, and other trees. The stems and
leaves of grasses, with pansies, pinks, and other plants from the
garden, were also eaten indiscriminately. They also managed to
gnaw through the shells of hickory-nuts, though such a thing as a
nut could never have been seen by them before. Raw, fresh meat of
any kind was eagerly devoured. In short, they were omnivorous.
The amount of food consumed by some specimens was astonishing.
Three ate, in twenty-four hours, besides other food, the germs from
all the kernels on a good-sized ear of corn. At another time, a
piece of carrot, measuring over a cubic inch, was eaten by two specimens
in one night; though they ate corn, grass, and meat the
previous and following days. They drank a good deal of water, soon
perishing when left long without it, or some moist food. In drinking,
they sometimes lapped, but oftener thrust the nose into the
water and moved the jaws as in
<a href="glossary.xhtml#masticate" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">masticating</a>.
When eating, they
grasped the food in their fore-paws, or sometimes held some particles
in one paw, while standing upon their hind-feet, not erect on the
<span id="page101" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="101"/>
haunches, but resting on the foot, (tarsus,) with the back-bone
arched, and the body leaning forward. This position was also
frequently assumed when they were not eating and they often stood
quite erect, upon the tarsi, or toes, alone, to look about, or to
examine anything held above them. In running, the toes only
were placed upon the ground. The fore-paws are used as hands
with all the facility of a squirrel, the food being grasped in them,
and turned about at pleasure. Upon holding a of grass near
one, he seized it with his paws, and, biting off small pieces with his
incisors, chewed and swallowed them rapidly. As I pulled it gently,
he grasped it more firmly; and, as I continued to pull, he reached
up an inch or two, and cut off the stem with his teeth. A piece of
the dry, outer covering of this getting into his mouth, he held that
which he was eating from in one paw, and with the other quite
readily drew out the unpalatable part, without ceasing to masticate.
When an ear of corn was placed in the cage, each one would seize
a kernel with his incisors, and, bracing his feet against the ear,
wrench it out by pulling to one side. In eating, the food was cut
into very small pieces by the incisors, before being ground by the
molar teeth. They sometimes attempted to crush pieces of meat or
vegetables, half the size of a pea, with their molars, but, taking
them into their paws again, would always cut them smaller with
their front teeth. When the bottom of the cage was filled with
earth, they would soon burrow in it. In digging, they would scratch
rapidly with the fore-feet several times, and then throw back the
earth to a greater distance with the hind-feet. The nose was much
used to push the dirt aside, which was also frequently loosened with
the teeth. As the hole grew deeper, and was dug horizontally,
they sometimes turned over on the back, to dig in that position. In
removing the earth from a burrow of some extent, they came out
backwards, scratching back the earth, with both hind and fore-feet,
as they came.</p>
    <p>The ferocity and exceedingly carnivorous propensities exhibited
by some specimens of this little rodent are truly astonishing.
Adult specimens recently captured and placed together often kill
and devour each other, mothers even eating their young. One
evening I placed in a large cage two old males taken in different
burrows. In the course of the night, much fighting and crying was
heard, and the next morning one was found to have been killed and
partly devoured by his companion. The other was supplied with
corn and fresh beef, both of which he ate; and in the course of the
<a href="glossary.xhtml#forenoon" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">forenoon</a>,
a half-grown house-mouse was placed alive in the cage.
This, without provocation, he at once attacked, as if in great rage,
uttering his usual cry of anger, with his hair erected and bristling.
In fighting, he sprang upon the mouse, striking with his fore-feet,
at the same time snapping quickly with his teeth, and then springing
nimbly back. Finally, he seized the mouse by the rump with
his incisors, and thus broke his back-bone. After this, the latter,
which had fought as well as he could, ceased to resist, when the
meadow-mouse, catching him in his teeth, threw him forcibly to
<span id="page102" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="102"/>
some distance, and continued to strike, bite, and toss him about
until he was dead. His anger then appeared to subside as rapidly
as it had risen, and a few minutes he was observed placidly eating
corn. The old males were always very pugnacious, biting and
striking at anything thrust towards them. When much teased in
this way, they sometimes turned on their backs, snapping with their
teeth, and striking with all four feet. When enraged, they uttered
a low, harsh, creaking note, resembling that of a very young puppy.
If hurt, their voices were clearer and sharper. Sometimes they
chattered their teeth in anger. The females were not so pugnacious,
and were more silent; seldom fighting or crying out in anger when
teased. They were equally as carnivorous, however, as the males.
Like most arvicolae, this species takes to the water boldly, and swims
and dives readily.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p>The binomial name <span class="taxon">Arvicola austerus</span> [Le Conte, <time>1853</time>] is now considered to be an invalid junior synonym of
<span class="taxon">Microtus ochrogaster</span> [Wagner, <time>1842</time>].</p>
    <p>This species is currently referred to using the common name &#8216;Prairie Vole&#8217;.</p>
    <p>For more information on the Prairie Vole, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 355: <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/3504103" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.2307/3504103</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180312" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 180312</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>