<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Prairie-Dog</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="pdog.label">
  <span id="page81b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="81b"/>
  <h1 id="pdog.label">Prairie-Dog</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate9.xhtml#b">Plate <span title="nine b">IX.b</span></a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Spermophilus ludovicianus</span> [Ord, <time>1815</time>]</li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;<span role="list"><span role="listitem">Length of adult male from nose to root of tail, 13 inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail, (vertebræ,) 2&#8541; inches.</span>
  <span role="listitem">Back, reddish-brown mixed with grey and black;</span>
  <span role="listitem">belly, soiled white;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail, banded with brown near the tip.</span>
</span></p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p>The famous &#8220;Prairie Dog,&#8221; or &#8220;Prairie Squirrel,&#8221; exists in great
abundance on the plains west of the Missouri River, being also found
over a large extent of country at the southward, and it has also been
<span id="page82" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="82"/>
observed as far west as California. At the southward, Captain Marcy
found it above Cross Timbers, on the Red River of Louisiana. Though
not properly included among the mammals of this region, this squirrel
has more resemblance to our grey spermophile in color, and to
the wood-chuck (<span class="taxon">Arctomys monax</span>) in form,
than to any other known to our farmers.
Its habits are not unlike those of our grey and striped spermophiles.
Like them, it is strictly a prairie animal,
subsisting upon plants, and probably on some insects.</p>
    <p>The prairie dogs are fond of each other’s company, and live
together, in great congregations, their numerous burrows, situated
close together, being called &#8220;prairie-dog towns.&#8221; The burrow is
much deeper and more extensive than that of either of our two Illinois
prairie-squirrels. Like these, it is fond of standing erect near
its hole, ventures from it with caution, and hastens into it when
alarmed; but, as if it were inquisitive, soon puts out its head again
to look at the cause of its fright. Like the rest of the genus, it
hibernates. Its note is said to have gained it the name of &#8220;Prairie
Dog,&#8221; but its voice can scarcely bear much resemblance to the bark
of a dog, and is probably more like the whistling chatter of our
grey and striped spermophiles, though perhaps less musical and clear.</p>
    <p>Numbers of our common [Sic] prairie rattlesnakes
(<span class="taxon">Crotalophorus tergeminus</span>)<sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup>,
as well as of a small owl, live habitually in the burrows
of the prairie-dog. These can hardly be welcome guests of the
rightful inhabitants. Though the owl probably feeds chiefly upon
insects, it might devour the young; and the rattlesnake certainly
does, as well as makes many a meal of the adults.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>The binomial nomenclature of this species is an excellent example of the rules of taxonomy nomenclature in action.</p>
    <p>The first description of this species that gave it a binomial name came in <time>1815</time> by Ord, giving it the name <span class="taxon">Arctomys ludovicianus</span> placing it in the existing genus <span class="taxon">Arctomys</span> [Schreber, <time>1780</time>; <abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=930222">930222</a>].</p>    
    <p>A second description of this species giving it a binomial name came in <time>1817</time> by Rafinesque&#8212;apparently unaware Ord had already described it&#8212;giving it the name <span class="taxon">Cynomys socialis</span>. Rafinesque did not believe this species fit any existing genera, so he defined the genus <span class="taxon">Cynomys</span> using <span class="taxon">Cynomys socialis</span> as the type species for the genus.</p>
    <p>As the <span class="taxon">Cynomys socialis</span> of Rafinesque is the same species as <span class="taxon">Arctomys ludovicianus</span> of Ord, <span class="taxon">Cynomys socialis</span> is an invalid junior synonym because <span class="taxon">Arctomys ludovicianus</span> was described first.</p>
    <p>Kennicott, the author of this paper (<time>1857</time>), recognized that this species did not belong in the genus <span class="taxon">Arctomys</span>. He placed it in the Ground Squirrel genus <span class="taxon">Spermophilus</span> [F. Cuvier, <time>1825</time>; <abbr>TSN</abbr> <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180145">180145</a>]. I do not know if Kennicott was the first to use <span class="taxon">Spermophilus ludovicianus</span> or if he followed another naturalist, that binomial combination does not seem to have been used very often.</p>
    <p>Just a year later in <abbr>1857</abbr>, in <time>1858</time>, Baird also recognized that this species did not belong in <span class="taxon">Arctomys</span>. Baird however did not feel this species belonged in <span class="taxon">Spermophilus</span> either, or any other genera currently in use. As Rafinesque was the first to recognize this species belonged in a novel genus, even though the binomial name <span class="taxon">Cynomys socialis</span> is an invalid junior synonym to <span class="taxon">Arctomys ludovicianus</span>, the rules of taxonomy nomenclature give priority to <span class="taxon">Cynomys</span> for the genus name since Rafinesque was the first to recognize that this species needed a novel genus. Baird thus correctly used the name <span class="taxon">Cynomys ludovicianus</span>, combining the specific name from the original description by Ord with the genus name by Rafinesque.</p>
    <p>As <span class="taxon">Cynomys ludovicianus</span> is now the binomial nomenclature for the type species to the genus <span class="taxon">Cynomys</span>, it is highly unlikely the accepted binomial nomenclature for this species will ever change again. The only ways that could happen:</p>
    <ol>
      <li><span class="taxon">Cynomys ludovicianus</span> is shown to be a junior synonym for an earlier described species. Not going to happen, this species is clearly distinct from all earlier described species.</li>
      <li>Cladistics show that <span class="taxon">Cynomys ludovicianus</span> aligns closely with a previously described genus such that placing this species in the previously described genus would solve a paraphyletic clade issue. Also highly unlikely to ever happen.</li>
    </ol>
    <p>Unless for some reason we are compelled to abandom binomial nomenclature, the species described by Ord will almost certainly always be known as <span class="taxon">Cynomys ludovicianus</span> [Ord, <time>1815</time>].</p>
    <hr class="half" />
    <p>This species is currently referred to using the common name &#8216;Black-tailed Prairie Dog&#8217;.</p>
    <p>For more information on the Black-tailed Prairie Dog, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 535: <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/3504202" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.2307/3504202</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180186" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 180186</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
The author is almost certainly referring to the Massasauga (<span class="taxon">Sistrus catenatus</span>) [Rafinesque, <time>1818</time>]. There is a subspecies with the trinomial name <span class="taxon">S. c. tergeminus</span> [Say, <time>1823</time>] and while that subspecies is not present in Illinois, the Massasauga species is present in Illinois and is sometime colloquially called the Prairie Rattlesnake.</p>
<p>The actual Prairie Rattlesnake (<span class="taxon">Crotalus viridis</span>) [Rafinesque, <time>1818</time>] is not currently or historically known to be present in Illinois.</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>