<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Southern Gray or Carolina Squirrel</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="blk-squirrel.label">
  <span id="page66b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="66b"/>
  <h1 id="blk-squirrel.label">Southern Gray or Carolina Squirrel</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="photo6.xhtml">Photo 6</a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Sciurus carolinensis</span> [Gmelin, <time>1788</time>]</li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;Size somewhat smaller than the migratory
northern gray and black-squirrels. It is of a rusty-gray color above; on the belly, it is
pure white; the feet and face are somewhat tinged with rufous. These colors
do not vary, and the species may thus at once be distinguished from
<span class="taxon">Sciurus migratorius</span>, wherever it abounds.</p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">This species is a Southern squirrel, and is most abundant in some
of the southern states. Audubon and Bachman say it is not
numerous in Alabama and Mississippi, and that it has not been seen
west of the Mississippi River. I have received specimens however,
from Miss Helen Tennison, of Monticello, Mississippi, who informs
me that it is common in the woods along Pearl River. It is found in
Virginia and Southern Ohio. In Southern Illinois and Indiana,
it is exceedingly abundant. At Cairo, in this state, I saw specimens
which had been shot in Kentucky, and I was told that it was abundant
in the western part of that state as well as in south-eastern
Missouri. It doubtless exists throughout Kentucky and Tennessee.
<abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy informs me that he saw it, in considerable numbers, through
Central Missouri, along the Missouri and Osage Rivers.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
In the more
heavily timbered districts, along the Mississippi and Illinois Rivers,
this squirrel abounds, even in Northern Illinois. I believe it is never
found in the prairie groves nor oak openings; but in the prairie
regions, in the northern counties of this state, it is occasionally met
with in heavy timber on the low river-bottoms, or in those skirting
Lake Michigan. In this locality, it is known among hunters as the
&#8220;Silver-gray Squirrel.&#8221;</span></p>
    <span id="page67" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="67"/>
    <p>The Carolina squirrel delights in the heavy timber on low bottom
lands. It even finds a favorite home in the deep shade of cypress
swamps, where the sombre drapery, formed by the hanging <span class="taxon">Tillandsia</span>,
gives them a dark and sad appearance, but which, wonderfully,
is enlivened by the numbers of squirrels that run about the trees,
and leap from limb to limb, or sit perched upon the branches, saucily
eyeing the traveller, who, delighted by their merry activity in
this gloomy place, pauses to observe them. In Southern Illinois,
where this and the fox-squirrel are the only species found, it is much
more numerous in the swamps and river bottoms than on the high
ridges.</p>
    <p>This squirrel is very generally confounded with the
<span class="taxon">Sciurus migratorius</span>
of the North, and naturalists have made much confusion by
falling into this error. DeKay, in the
&#8220;<span class="worktitle">Natural History of New York</span>,&#8221;
calls the migratory squirrel <span class="taxon">Sciurus carolinensis</span>; and some
other naturalists still persist in considering the two identical. A
little attention to the habits of each would convince any one of the
propriety of considering them distinct.</p>
    <p>The food of the Carolina squirrel is much the same as that of the
two species already described. They bury nuts and acorns in the
leaves, and late in winter feed largely upon buds, being particularly
fond apparently of those of the soft maple and the elm. Like the
others, they incur the wrath of the farmer by their ravages in the
corn field, where they devour the grain on the stalk and carry off
whole ears to the woods.</p>
    <p>From three to six young are produced at a birth by this species.
Two, and possibly sometimes three litters, are brought forth in a
year. They are rarely produced in the nests of leaves.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>The squirrel being referenced here is the nominative subspecies when trinomial nomenclature is used,
<span class="taxon">Sciurus carolinensis carolinensis</span> [Gmelin, <time>1788</time>].</p>
    <p>The author notes that in his day, some naturalists considered the Migratory Squirrel
<span class="taxon">Sciurus migratorius</span> to be conspecific with <span class="taxon">Sciurus carolinensis</span>.
That is now the overwhelmingly accepted consensus. The two are the same species, although they are classified
as different subspecies, with what was formerly known as <span class="taxon">Sciurus migratorius</span> now split
into several subspecies of <span class="taxon">Sciurus carolinensis</span>.</p>
    <hr class="half" />
    <p>This species is currently referred to using the common name &#8216;Eastern Gray Squirrel&#8217;. Although multiple subspecies are recognized, common names at the subspecies level do not appear to be used in most current literature.</p>
    <p>For more information on the Eastern Gray Squirrel, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 480: <a href="https://doi.org/10.2307/3504224" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.2307/3504224</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180175" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 180175</a> (<span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> carolinensis</span>)</li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=930431" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 930431</a> (<span class="taxon"><abbr>S.</abbr> <abbr>c.</abbr> carolinensis</span>)</li>
    </ul>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>