<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Prairie Squirrels, or Spermophiles</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="spermophiles.label">
  <span id="page73b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="73b"/>
  <h1 id="spermophiles.label">Prairie Squirrels, or Spermophiles</h1>
  <p>These are with great propriety called &#8220;Prairie Squirrels,&#8221; for
their true home is on the prairie, where they replace the &#8220;arboreal&#8221;
squirrels, from which they differ in organization, to suit their necessarily
different mode of life. While the true squirrels are designed
to live in trees, and to subsist upon their fruits, the spermophiles
are fitted to inhabit the grassy plains which cover much of the
western part of our Union, their food being the prairie plants with
their roots and seeds. The form of these squirrels is adapted only
to locomotion on the ground. The body is thick and heavy, with
short legs, and, in place of the long toes and sharp-hooked nails,
by which the arboreal squirrels cling to the trees so readily, they
have shorter toes with longer and straighter nails, for digging burrows
in the earth. The long, flexible and bushy tails, which aid
the squirrels in their bold leaps, and keep them warm in their holes
in winter, would here be useless, and soon worn ragged by dragging
through their burrows. The spermophiles, therefore, have
smaller tails, that are carried straight behind them. They have
cheek-pouches, in which to carry food; and two species, at least,
convey roots, seeds, <abbr title="Et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr> to their burrows to be eaten.</p>
  <p>In winter, there would be little food or shelter for them on the
frozen and snow-covered prairies; and so the spermophiles make
one long night of it, and sleep away the season of frost. The
peculiar state of torpor in which these and some other rodents, as
well as a few carnivorous mammals, pass the winter, is an admirable
provision in the economy of Nature. At the approach of severe
cold, in autumn, the prairie squirrel retires to its burrow, the
entrances to which are tightly closed with earth, to exclude the
frost. In the large nest of grass he curls himself up, with his head
against the abdomen, and falls into a state of torpor, out of which
<span id="page74" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="74"/>
he does not awaken until the return of warm weather in spring.
In this state, he takes no nourishment, whatever, nor does he move.</p>
  <p>If cut or bruised, he exhibits no signs of feeling; and to all
external appearances seems dead. Respiration and the circulation
of the blood are carried on very imperfectly; but slight oxygenation
of the blood takes place, and little heat is generated&#8212;the body
being cold. There is no secretion nor excretion, and very little
waste of tissues occurs; and thus the necessity for food is obviated.
From this state, he is at once revived to activity by the simple
application of heat. Placed in the cold, he again becomes torpid. It is
to be observed that the species, which passes the winter thus in
profound torpor, if removed to a warmer climate, or if kept in a warm
room, will remain active during winter. Thus we see how, in the
perfect laws of Nature, it is ordered, that the hibernating animals
shall fall into this state of torpor only when they would suffer from
cold and want of food, if active.</p>
  <p>These, like the true squirrels, are strictly diurnal. Most of the
species are inclined to be gregarious, while some live together in
large companies. The flesh of several is said to be palatable, though
I am not aware that either of our two prairie-squirrels is eaten, in
this vicinity. Two species have rendered themselves obnoxious to
our prairie farmers.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>