<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Squirrels</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="squirrels.label">
  <span id="page54" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="54"/>
  <h1 id="squirrels.label">Squirrels</h1>
  <p>The true squirrel is arboreal. His home is in the trees, and his
legitimate food their fruits and buds. Should he go to the ground,
it is only in search of food; and, this obtained, he returns to his airy
dwelling-place. Here, in summer, he builds him a nest of leaves
taken from the branches at hand, and in a hole in the same tree, or
in one that he can attain by springing from branch to branch without
going to the ground, he has a more secure retreat, to which he
can retire during inclement weather, or escape the attacks of an
enemy, and in which the young are generally reared.</p>
  <p>This class of squirrels possesses a muscular but light and graceful
form, with the toes long and the nails strong and sharp, by which
they are enabled to climb trees and take long leaps among the
branches with wonderful ease. In these leaps, they are also aided by
their large and bushy tails, which serve as rudders to steer by. They
use their fore feet as hands, seizing their food with them, and stand
upon their hind feet, when eating. On the ground, they either
run or move by springs made mainly by the hind-legs. Unlike most
of the order, they move about by day and keep in their retreats
at night, to which they also retire for a few hours during the
middle of the day. Though their food is properly vegetable,
squirrels are known to eat insects. By a slighter departure from
their natural food, they exhibit a fondness for corn, and more rarely
wheat and other grains, which is highly prejudicial to their good
standing in a community of farmers. In fact, these animals are
frequently much more injurious than is generally known. In certain
districts, whole fields of corn are destroyed by them at times, while
it is a common thing to find considerable tracts lying near the woods
not worth harvesting, because of their depredations. So serious was
the result of their ravages at one time in the Eastern States that, as
related by Pennant, in the year <time>1749</time>, £8,000 were paid out of the
treasury of Pennsylvania in premiums for the destruction of squirrels.
The premium for each being 3 pence, would show that the enormous
number of six hundred and forty thousand were killed in one
year, besides the vast numbers for which no rewards were claimed,
and those also which were otherwise destroyed.</p>
  <p>In some States, parties for grand hunts are occasionally organized
in autumn, the hunters forming into two companies, each
of which endeavors to outdo the other in the number of squirrels
brought in, and the losing party forfeiting the expense of the evening’s
entertainment at the wayside or village inn. These hunts are
kept up from one to three days, and the quantities of squirrels sometimes
shot&#8212;without estimating those purchased for the occasion by
eager but unfair members of the company&#8212;would seem incredible
to persons not residing in localities where they abound.</p>
  <p>Squirrels at times form a valuable addition to our food. There is
a foolish prejudice existing among many against eating them; but a
<span id="page55" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="55"/>
young spuirrel properly cooked makes a delicious morsel, and old
ones are far from unpalatable , when fat. Their flesh is certainly
more healthful and delicate than that of so unclean an animal as the
hog, which, nevertheless frequently is preferred. Great numbers are
sold in our city markets, and usually at low prices. In winter,
thousands of migratory Carolina and fox-squirrels are bought up by
purchasers of provisions throughout Indiana, Michigan, Illinois,
and forwarded to Chicago, where the marketmen retail them at 12&#189;
cents each. The skins of our American species are of no value in
commerce, their fur being little esteemed and seldom used.</p>
  <p>Squirrels probably do not suffer much from the attacks of wild
animals. Man is their worst enemy. Wild-cats, martins, and some
of the larger hawks and snakes sometimes capture the young, and
more rarely the old ones. They are occasionally infested by the
larvæ of a species of œstrus<sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup>
, which must give them much annoyance. These grubs, or
&#8220;warbles,&#8221; are found living in the skin, in
abscesses formed by their presence, usually about the shoulders and
such other parts as the squirrel cannot reach with his teeth.</p>
  <p>Squirrels are readily domesticated, making pleasing and intelligent
pets. In confinement, they exhibit their usual activity; and,
indeed, if not permitted exercise, they often pine and die. Cages
are hence usually provided with revolving wheels, in which the
captives soon learn to turn, and from which they derive even more
enjoyment than do the spectators by this substitute for their natural
exercise.</p>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
<dfn>œstrus</dfn> here refers to a parasitical fly in the family Oestridae.</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>