<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Striped and Spotted Prairie-Squirrel</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="ssp-squirrel.label">
  <span id="page74b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="74b"/>
  <h1 id="ssp-squirrel.label">Striped and Spotted Prairie-Squirrel</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate8.xhtml#b">Plate <span title="eight b">VIII.b</span></a>, <a href="photo10.xhtml">Photo 10</a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Spermophilus tridecemlineatus</span> [Mitchill, <time>1788</time>]<sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup></li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;<span role="list"><span role="listitem">Length of adult male, in September, from nose to root of tail, 7 inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail, (vertebræ,) 3&#8541; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail to tip of longest hair, 4&#188; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">hind-foot 1&#189; inches;</span>
</span>
On the back and sides there are nine stripes of a dark brown
color, with a row of yellowish dots along each of the five central stripes, which
are the broadest and most distinct. Alternating with these brown stripes, are
eight narrow lines of yellowish-gray; thus making seventeen in all, which
shows Mitchill’s name to not be very characteristic. The lower lines are
indistinct, and in some specimens, cannot be traced. The under parts of the
body are yelllowish-brown.</p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p>This little animal, so well known on our prairies, resembles the
common chipmuck
(<span class="taxon">Tamias striatus</span>), and is of about the same size,
or a little longer. It abounds in the prairies of
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">Michigan,</span>
  <span role="listitem">Wisconsin,</span>
  <span role="listitem">Minnesota,</span>
  <span role="listitem">Iowa,</span>
  <span role="listitem">Northern Missouri,</span>
  <span role="listitem">Middle and Northern Illinois,</span>
  <span role="listitem">and Northern Indiana.</span>
</span>
It is only found in the northern edge of Missouri.
In Illinois, it is most abundant in the northern part of the State;
and it does not exist at all below latitude thirty-nine
degrees, if it does as far south as that. It is not found east of the
prairie regions, nor oak openings, of Indiana and Michigan, except
<span id="page75" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="75"/>
rarely in the northeastern corner of Ohio. At the North, Richardson
found it towards latitude fifyt-five degrees, in the British Possessions;
it has been seen as far west as Fort Laramie, on Platte River. Audubon
and Bachman state that it is found abundantly on the Upper Missouri,
and that it is said to extend along the prairies east of
the Rocky Mountains into Mexico.</p>
    <p>In Iowa, Wisconsin, and Northern Illinois where this animal is
abundant and much complained of by farmers, it is universally
called &#8220;gopher.&#8221; The true gopher
(<span class="taxon">Pseudostoma bursarius</span>)<sup><a href="#footnote.2" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[2]</a></sup> being
also found in Iowa and Illinois, the two animals are frequently
confounded; and such is the profound contempt of some farmers
for any systematic study of natural history, that, though repeated
descriptions of both these animals have been published in various
agricultural journals, they go on correcting each other’s statements,
after a fashion, in preference to learning first what they
are writing about. One, who knows only the true gopher, burrows
of which are miles in length, very naturally laughs at
another for saying he drowns out hundreds of gophers, (meaning
prairie-squirrels,) by pouring a pailful or two of water into a
burrow; while the latter must be very careless, to state that
gophers cut the roots of trees, gnaw vegetables, and injur fields by
throwing up hills. The <span class="taxon">Pseudostoma</span> undoubtedly has the best
right to the name of &#8220;gopher,&#8221; and should retain it. Our farmers
would obviate needless and frequent confusion, if they would not
apply the same name to the present species, for which the designation
&#8220;Striped Prairie Squirrel&#8221; would be far more appropriate;
and which, in fact, is highly characteristic, being in itself a
description of the animal. To call it &#8220;Ground Squirrel,&#8221; as is
sometimes done, is bad, because the
<span class="taxon">Tamias striatus</span> is well known as
the &#8220;Striped Ground Squirrel.&#8221; In Northern Illinois, I have
heard the German farmers very generally call it &#8220;Fence Mouse,&#8221;
which name they also apply to the <span class="taxon">Tamias striatus</span>.</p>
    <p>This species is emphatically a prairie animal. It never inhabits
timber lands when there is prairie in the vicinity. Though it may
be found in oak openings, it is never in heavy timber; and, when
living in these openings, it is always most abundant on the edges
of open ground, or where the trees are most scattering.</p>
    <p>I am not aware that this prairie-squirrel ever inhabits
ravines,<sup><a href="#footnote.author" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[&#9830;]</a></sup>
in preference to level ground, though
<span class="taxon">Spermophilus franklinii</span><sup><a href="#footnote.3" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[3]</a></sup>
sometimes appears fond of burrowing in banks. The favorite habitation
of this species is on dry prairie knolls. It is naturally gregarious,
and though never observed living in such great companies as the
prairie-dog, twenty, or sometimes even fifty or a hundred may be
found within the area of an acre, two burrows being frequently
within a few feet of each other, though one is never inhabited by
<span id="page76" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="76"/>
more than a pair. In passing near a knoll inhabited by them,
numbers may be seen standing upright at the entrance of their
burrows, so straight and motionless as to be easily mistaken for as
many sticks. But, as you approach one, he will disappear, by a
movement so rapid that he can scarcely be followed by the eye; and,
if it were not for the whistling chatter accompanying his disappearance,
you might think your vision had deceived you, and that
nothing had been there. But upon stepping back several rods, it
is more than likely that he will have resumed his position before
you are aware of it. If you remain close to his hole, he will only
thrust out his head and eye you suspiciously.</p>
    <p>The striped spermophile leaves its burrow with great caution, and
only for a short distance. At the slightest alarm it silently glides
back through the grass, yet with great rapidity, keeping close to
the ground and never leaping. Its burrow reached, unless closely
pursued, it stops for a moment at the entrance, sitting upright on
the tarsi, and then suddenly pops into the hole, uttering several
quick, clear, whisteling notes. Unless it has been very much alarmed,
it ill always thrust out its head again to reconnoitre; and boys,
taking advantage of this practice, often catch these animals by
slipping a noose arranged over the hole, the moment one has entered.
When one is shot near his burrow, the body can seldom be secured,
for, like the prairie-dog, unless cut to pieces by the shot, he will
manage to tumble into his hole.</p>
    <p>Before the production of the young, in May or June, the old male
leaves the female, and appears to lead a solitary and more or less
wandering life, digging a temporary burrow, or occupying a deserted
one for a few days, wherever he may take up his abode. These
summer burrows may often be found, and sometimes are of considerable
extent; several of those which were examined were more than 20
feet in length, being simple galleries from six inches to a foot below
the surface&#8212;deeper in sandy soil&#8212;opening at both ends, with the
nest placed in a small side-chamber; others were of much less
extent, sometimes with but one entrance, and sometimes without
nests. The winter burrow, in which the pair hibernate and the
female brings forth her young, is deeper and more complicated, having
always two entrances or more. In this, in a side-chamber of
suitable size, excavated above the level of the rest of the burrow, is a
large spherical nest of soft grass, entered by an opening on one side.
This nest is sometimes of the size of a half bushel, the interior
being generally lined with softer material than the outside. The
young are produced at the end of May or early in June. I have
observed from five to nine brought forth at a birth, and I am
informed of two instances in which ten were found in a nest; but
the number is variable, the usual number being six or seven. The
young at birth are naked, blind, and remarkably embryonic. <abbr>Dr.</abbr>
Hoy, who observed them in confinement, says that they have no
hair on the body before they are twenty days old, and that the eyes
do not open till the thirteenth day. They continue to require the
nourishment and care of the mother for a much longer period than
<span id="page77" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="77"/>
most rodents. During summer, they begin to dig shallow burrows,
and leave her before winter, to shift for themselves. Hibernating
mammals require to be in good condition when they retire to winter-quarters,
which the females could scarcely be, did they rear young
late in the season. This spermophile and probably the rest of the
genus produce but one litter of young a year.</p>
    <p>The natural food of the striped spermophile is the grasses, with
their seeds and roots, as well as those of various other herbaceous
plants, and even the most minute seeds of annuals. Mice and
insects are also known to form a part of their food. Many of our
farmers suppose that this animal feeds, in winter, upon stores of
provisions laid up in its hole for that season; for, though it spends
the winter in a state of profound torpor, it collects food in its burrow.
This is done in spring and summer, as well as in autumn.
Considerable stores of grain, seeds, roots, <abbr title="Et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>,
are found thus collected,
in large side-chambers excavated for their reception in the
burrow. Corn, wheat, and oats are stored up, when taken from the
newly-planted fields in spring, with buckwheat and winter wheat
later in the season, as well as heads of grain taken from the edges
of the fields in harvest time. I have seen more than a quart of
crab-apples taken from the burrow of one which had carried them
several rods from a tree. George and Frank Kennicott inform me
that they observed one, the burrow of which was near a lone burr-oak,
on the prairie, to carry great quantities of acorns into his hole;
and another was killed by them, the cheek-pouches of which were
crammed with the dry ovaries of a prairie plant, the seeds of which
were exceedingly minute. From this, it would appear that the
striped spermophile at all seasons carries portable articles of food
to its burrow to be eaten. He certainly takes no food from the time
he first becomes torpid, in autumn, until he again becomes active,
late in the following spring. In Northern Illinois, these animals
generally go into winter-quarters late in October, usually retiring
at the first appearance of hard frost, though a few keep out longer;
and I have observed several, in warm weather, as late as the 10th
of November, after the ground had been frozen an inch deep, and
there had been constant frost for several days. In spring, they
rarely leave their burrows before the frost is fully out of the ground.
To <abbr>Mr.</abbr> William Bebb, of Fountaindale, Winnebago county,
Illinois, I am indebted for the following dates of this spermophile’s
first appearance in spring, as noted in the meteorological register
of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Edward Bebb:
&#8220;<span role="list"><span role="listitem"><time datetime="1851-04-10">1851, April 10th</time>;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><time datetime="1852-04-11">1852, April 11th</time>;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><time datetime="1853-04-02">1853, April 2d</time>;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><time datetime="1854-03-29">1854, March 29th</time>;</span>
  <span role="listitem"><time datetime="1855-04-12">1855, April 12th</time>.</span></span>&#8221;</p>
    <p>Among farmers, this spermophile has a bad reputation, in consequence
of its injuring corn fields by digging up the newly-planted
seed, in spring. Persons residing on newly-broken prairie inform
me that they sometimes suffer severely from the prairie-squirrels.
It is said that large corn fields have to be replanted, where they have
been at work, while, in some districts, every corn field is seriously
injured by them. No sooner is the corn planted, than they begin to
work at the edges of the field next to their burrows. They show
<span id="page78" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="78"/>
much intelligence in following the rows, sometimes digging up
every hill for several rods, and this before, as well as after the corn
has sprouted. They are industrious, and take up a great deal of
corn in a day, which, apparently, is always carried to the burrow.
In such districts, farmers agree that their injury to corn fields is on
so extensive a scale as to render the destruction of the prairie-squirrels
a matter of serious interest. They also do more or less
injury, by digging up garden seeds, such as peas, melons, <abbr title="Et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, and,
though rarely, are more seriously injurious, by destroying apple and
osage orange seeds in nurseries. I am not aware, however, that
they are ever accused of gnawing bark, destroying growing vegetables,
or, in fact, of injuring the farmer in any other way than by
devouring grain and seeds. In consequence of this reputation for
mischievous habits in the corn field, farmers all appear to think it a
good deed to kill a spermophile. But they should not be too hasty;
for, as far as the present species is concerned, there is something to
be heard in its favor. In the Patent Office Report for <time>1853</time>, page
68, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy has shown that this animal feeds upon mice and insects,
when in captivity, and he further informs me that he has examined
burrows in which the numbers of the skins of meadow-mice found
sufficiently proved the appetite exhibited by his caged specimens to
be natural. Those observed in captivity, killed and devoured mice
in the same manner as the weasel, showing themselves to be adepts
at this mode of procuring food. One would spring upon a mouse
savagely, uttering a low snarl, and despatch it by biting its neck,
after which the top of the skull was taken off, the brains licked out,
and the blood sucked, the body not being devoured when there was
an abundant supply. There can be no doubt that meadow-mice and
insects are largely eaten by these animals whenever they can be
obtained; and the high probability is, that their good offices in the
destruction of these, far more than counterbalance their occasional
injury to corn fields. I doubt their being so very injurious in
long-cultivated farms. The first few crops of corn planted on
newly-broken prairie, inhabited by striped spermophiles, suffer from their
ravages; and so a hue and cry is raised against them, and their
actual depredations are much exaggerated. This animal disappears
before the plow, and, as it will never leave its burrow for any
great distance, it does not generally invade well-cultivated fields,
nor attack corn except at the sides of the field next to wild prairies
or meadows inhabited by it. In Northern Illinois, I have observed
large corn fields, raised on farms in the meadows of which this
spermophile abounds, where, if it does any harm at all, it is so
inconsiderable as not to be noticed. <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy says that in a large
neighborhood in Southern Wisconsin, where these spermophiles are very
numerous, he knows of but one farmer who kills them, nor is he
able to hear that they do any considerable injury.</p>
    <p>When, in newly-cultivated districts, it becomes necessary to
exterminate the striped spermophile, it can be done with ease. It is
readily trapped or shot, and a few bucketfuls of water will always
drown one out of its hole. But in killing this animal, let farmers
<span id="page79" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="79"/>
consider whether they are not destroying a friend. Let all observe
critically how many mice, grasshoppers, <abbr title="Et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, it destroys, and then
treat it accordingly. This species suffers but little, when at all,
from rapacious animals. It leaves its burrow with so much caution,
and is so constantly on the alert, as to be rarely exposed to their
attacks. Hawks are not observed to catch, nor even to hunt for
them.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p>In <time>2009</time>, this subgenus <span class="taxon">Ictidomys</span> was elevated to full genus status resulting in the binomial name <span class="taxon">Ictidomys tridecemlineatus</span> [Mitchill, <time>1788</time>] for this species. Numerous subspecies are currently recognized.</p>
    <hr class="half" />
    <p>This species is currently referred to using the common name &#8216;Thirteen-Lined Ground Squirrel&#8217;.</p>
    <p>For more information on the Thirteen-Lined Ground Squirrel, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Generic Revision in the Holarctic Ground Squirrel Genus <span class="taxon">Spermophilus</span> (Helgen, <time>2009</time>): <a href="https://doi.org/10.1644/07-MAMM-A-309.1" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.1644/07-MAMM-A-309.1</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=930308" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 930308</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Author Footnote" id="footnote.author" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[&#9830;]
In the Patent Office Report for <time>1853</time>, <abbr>Dr.</abbr> P. R. How, of Racine, Wisconsin, gave a
highly interesting and original account of this animal. In that article, as printed, this
species is stated to be abundant in the ravines of Wisconsin, but he informs me that
this is an accidental error, &#8220;ravines&#8221; being printed where &#8220;prairies&#8221; was intended to be
expressed.</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
The author gave an incorrect spelling of <span class="taxon">Spermophilus tredecimlineatus</span> with an incorrect authority spelling of [Mitchell].</p>
<p>The correct spelling of <span class="taxon">Spermophilus tridecemlineatus</span> with the correct authority spelling [Mitchill, <time>1821</time>] is used in the article in place of the mistake.</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 2" id="footnote.2" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[2]
Current nomenclature for the Plains Pocket Gopher is <span class="taxon">Geomys bursarius</span> [Shaw, 1800].</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 3" id="footnote.3" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[3]
Current nomenclature for the Gray Prairie-Squirrel (Franklin’s Ground Squirrel) is <span class="taxon">Poliocitellus franklinii</span> [Sabine, 1822].</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>