<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>To Do List</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body>
<section  epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="chapter.label">
  <h1 id="chapter.label">To Do List</h1>
  <p>This digital book currently does an adequate job at representing the original content of the author.</p>
  <p>There are however improvements that will be hopefully made.</p>
  <p>With the exception of potential legal and <abbr>WCAG</abbr> level A and AA issues, published updates to this digital book will not happen more than once every six months.</p>
  <ol>
    <li>This digital publication needs proper Content Accessibility testing so that any existing <abbr>WCAG</abbr> level A or AA issues can be immediately fixed and any level AAA issues can be fixed when possible. Content Accessibility issues can be reported at the <a href="https://github.com/pipfrosch/quadrupeds_of_illinois/issues" title="Internet Resource">github issues page</a>. Actual certified testing will require budget which will require donations. I have not yet received an estimate for certified testing cost.</li>
    <li>Glossary entries need to be made for every term that could be confusing to a student in junior high school. If you aware of a term that needs a glossary entry, please feel free to file a bug report (issue) at the <a href="https://github.com/pipfrosch/quadrupeds_of_illinois/issues" title="Internet Resource">github issues page</a>.</li>
    <li>
      <p>The reproduced plates from the original article are not of the quality I would like and they <em>may</em> have legal issues as they were extracted from a Google Books <abbr>PDF</abbr> scan.</p>
      <p>The original article is in the public domain but the way <abbr>U. S.</abbr> copyright law works, a new copyright is assigned to a photograph or scan of another work.</p>
      <p>I managed to find an original copy of the publication on eBay at a cost of $48.66 <abbr>USD</abbr> shipped, purchased on <time datetime="2020-08-01">August 01, 2020</time>. There is a second article with plates in that same volume that I will be transcribing to ePub in the future. This article has 20 illustration on 10 plates, the second article (Avian) has 32 illustrations on 32 plates, so between both articles the cost comes to just under a dollar per illustration, not including my time, and assuming all the plates are in a usable/restorable condition.</p>
      <p>The book has not arrived yet at initial publication time, but I will be able to use it to replace some if not all of the plates from the Google Books scanned plates with higher quality digitally restored scans that do not have any question with respect to copyright usage.</p>
      <p>The eBay seller did note there is some foxing (age related yellow-brownish spotting) of the plates. This will require some digital image cleanup work and as such will require quite a bit of time before a version of this digital book with improved plates is available.</p>
      <p>It is possible I will also convert the plates to <abbr>SVG</abbr> for better scaling, which will take additional time.</p>
    </li>
    <li>The illustrators for the original plates need to be identified so that proper credit can be given. This may be easier once the original copy arrives.</li>
    <li id="photo">
      <p>Obtain quality photographs as specified in the <a href="needed-photos.xhtml">Needed Photographs</a> appendix section that follows.</p>
      <p>Whenever possible, I do attempt to acquire existing quality photographs that have an Open Access compatible license, but I am somewhat picky when it comes to quality.</p>
      <p>Whenever possible, I do attempt to provide photographs myself. Unfortunately with this publication, I am a long ways away from where many of the animals described in this paper are found, and my own photographs frequently do not meet my quality expectations. I must concede that many high school students with an artistic eye and no formal photography training take better photographs than I do.</p>
      <p>When suitable freely available photographs have not been found, I would like to be able to offer a $50 bounty to the photographer for a suitable
photograph&#8212;<em>especially</em> if the photographer is a life sciences student or recent graduate&#8212;but I do not currently have that kind of budget. Financial donations specified for that purpose would help.</p>
      <p>If you do have photographic ability and access to the species in the list, please contact me but be aware I can not pay you unless donations for that purpose have come in.</p>
    </li>
    <li>The ePub specification allows for phonetic markup. At this time, ePub viewers do not support this part of the specification, but hopefully in the near future they will. Phonetic pronunciation of words that are likely to be mispronounced by Text-To-Speech (<abbr>TTS</abbr>) synthesizers need to be added. Some already have been added, but a careful analysis of all content needs to be done to identify additional cases where phonetic markup is warranted.</li>
    <li>At some point I would like to provide a Spanish translation, Spanish is spoken at home among many school-aged children in much of America. I do not expect this to happen for at least a year.</li>
  </ol>
</section>
</body>
</html>