<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>White-Footed Prairie-Mouse</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="wfpm.label">
  <span id="page92b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="92b"/>
  <h1 id="wfpm.label">White-Footed Prairie-Mouse</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate11.xhtml#a">Plate <span title="eleven a">XI.a</span></a>, <a href="photo15.xhtml">Photo 15</a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Mus bairdii</span> [Hoy and Kennicott, <time>1857</time>]</li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;<span role="list"><span role="listitem">Length of the adult male from nose to root of tail, 2&#8539; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail, (vertebræ,) 1&#8542; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">hind-foot, &#190; of an inch.</span>
</span>
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">Head and body of a large male, 3&#190; inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail, 2 inches.</span>
</span>
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">In another specimen, the head and body, 3 and three-sixteenths inches;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail, 1&#190; inches.</span>
</span>
In spring, the hairs on the upper parts
are
<a href="glossary.xhtml#pugnacious" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">plumbeous</a>
at the base, tipped with ashy and yellowish-brown; a few
longer hairs, entirely black, interspersed. The tips of most of the hairs
deepen into black along the back, giving a broad, black stripe, when the hair
lies flat. In some specimens, this stripe is not so dark as in others, but is
quite distinct in all, while in some it is pitch-black. On the upper lip, and
entire under parts of the body and legs, the hairs are plumbeous at the base,
tipped with pure white. The cheeks and lower edges of the color of the
upper parts, are yellowish, forming a border between the colors of the belly
and back. There is a distinct line of demarcation between this yellow border
and the white belly. On each side of the root of the tail is a bright
brownish-yellow spot, formed by the termination of the yellowish line on the
side. The hairs immediately about the root of the tail are ashy-brown.
The ears, upper part of the tail, and a distinct spot on the top of the fore-foot,
are brownish-black. The nails and toes of all the feet, and the tops of
the fore-feet, back to the blackish spot, are pure, creamy-white. In some
specimens, the the hind-foot is white nearly back to the heel; in others, it is
ashy-brown along the top, and white at the sides. The white of the under
parts of the fore-arm extends sometimes quite, at others nearly, around on
top, behind the blackish spot. The ears are as well clothed, and with as
long hairs, as those of summer specimens of <span class="taxon">Mus leucopus</span>; and the edges
are whitish. The incisors are yellowish, those in the upper jaw darker than
in the last-named species. The whiskers, situated anteriorly, are white, and
those further back entirely black. The comparative number of white and
<span id="page93" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="93"/>
black whiskers varies much in different specimens. When young, the upper
parts are dark ashy-brown; darker along the back, and faintly tinged with
yellowish on the cheeks, sides, and flanks. Like the preceding, this species
varies a good deal in size, and somewhat in the shades of coloring. This
mouse may be distinguished at once from its nearly allied
<a href="glossary.xhtml#congener" epub:type="glossref" role="doc-glossref">congener</a> the
<span class="taxon">Mus michiganensis</span><sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup>,
of Audubon and Bachman, which <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Hoy has
detected inhabiting the open woods near Racine, by its pure white belly, and
by the distinct line of demarcation between the color of the belly and the
yellowish-brown border on the sides. It will be very generally mistaken for
the <span class="taxon">Mus leucopus</span>, which it much resembles in form and color. Upon
comparison, it may be readily distinguished, however, by its smaller size, much
shorter tail, darker color, with usually a black dorsal stripe, more distinct
than that in the <span class="taxon">Mus leucopus</span>, and by its having the upper part of the tarsi
ashy-brown instead of pure white, as in that species. Moreover, the one
always inhabits the prairie, and the other the woods.</p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p>The <span class="taxon">Mus bairdii</span> is found abundantly on the prairies in Northern
Illinois and Southern Wisconsin; and <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Samuel Arny sent me a
number of specimens from Bloomington, McLean county, Illinois,
where, he informs me, it is common. It will probably be found in
the neighboring prairie regions, where it is strictly an inhabitant,
and replaces the <span class="taxon">Mus leucopus</span>. I have never observed it in the
woods, even near prairie fields in which it abounds. In Northern
Illinois and Southern Wisconsin, this is a much more numerous
species than the <span class="taxon">Mus leucopus</span>. It is confined only to high ground,
and it most abundant in cultivated fields.</p>
    <p>Not having, on the prairies, the shelter found by its timber-loving
cousins, in old stumps and trees, this species digs burrows. These
are rather simple, with few or no side-passages, and often with but
one entrance, the depth and extent being variable, but never great.
The nest is small, composed of soft grass, <abbr title="Et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>; it is spherical, and
the small internal cavity is entered through a narrow opening on
one side. In cultivated fields, the burrows are frequently dug
at the roots of fruit-trees, the bark of which is often gnawed,
sometimes causing great injury. In nurseries, fruit-trees are often
taken up and &#8220;heeled in;&#8221; that is, laid down close together, with
the roots placed in a trench, and then covered in such manner that
they are kept safely in a very small space, and can be readily pulled
out when desired. The loose earth among the roots of these, offers
an inviting habitation to the mice; and, in nurseries infested by
them, they will be found burrowing in almost every lot of trees thus
buried, where they feed upon the bark of the roots, and thus cause
serious damage. In the fall, they are often found in corn-shocks,
making a nest among the stalks, though they do not often burrow
under these as the arvicolæ. But, during winter, they may be
tracked in corn-fields from their burrows to the neighboring
corn-shocks, which they have visited for food. In spring, the young are
always produced in burrows. During the summer, however, they
are occasionally observed in nests, under bits of wood or bunches of
hay, on the surface of the ground. In autumn, I have found nests
of the young in small burrows only a few inches below the surface,
<span id="page94" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="94"/>
or under an inverted sod. I have never observed more than one
pair of adults occupying the same burrow; and, unlike the
<span class="taxon">Mus leucopus</span>, this species never appears to be gregarious.</p>
    <p>This mouse must be very prolific.I have found the young in
March and April, and observed two females, each with five young,
apparently but a few days old, about the 10th of November, while
they are found in every intervening month. In nearly every instance
within my observation the number of young produced at a birth has
been five. I once found six, and have at times, though rarely, seen
three or four. The young are found attached to the teats, as in the
species last described; and a female was seen to carry five for
several rods in this way, jumping along rapidly, despite their weight.
As soon as they are able to take care of themselves, the young
leave the mother. In summer, I have several times found one
apparently but a few weeks old, living alone in a nest made by himself.
In spring, I have always found the old male living with the
female and young; but during the summer, I have sometimes
observed the male leading a solitary life, and the females and young
in burrows by themselves. The food of this mouse, on the prairies,
appears to be herbaceous plants, with their seeds; but I have been
unable to see that it ever digs for roots. It is interesting to observe
that this, like the
<span class="taxon">Mus leucopus</span>, seeks its food on top of the ground,
running on the snow in winter in search of seeds, and
collecting them in autumn instead of roots, when it travels as often by
springing over the grass as by running through it, while the arvicolæ,
both in summer and winter, dislike to leave the shelter of the herbage
or snow, never being seen to travel over the grass, but always
in runways so constructed as to afford concealment by grass or
leaves; and their food consists largely, if not chiefly, of roots dug
out of the ground. Were the <span class="taxon">Mus bairdii</span> an inhabitant of the
woods, it would doubtless be to some extent arboreal, which the
arvicolæ never are. This mouse probably feeds more or less upon
insects, as it is carnivorous in captivity; though some specimens are
much less so than others. On one occasion, I captured a pair with
five young, and placed them all in a cage well supplied with various
kinds of vegetables and grain. The next day several of the young
were killed and eaten, and in two or three days, they had all disappeared.
Shortly afterwards, the male, which had been slightly
injured, was found dead, and partly devoured by his rapacious
spouse. After this, I fed my specimens with meat, as well as grain,
which they ate; and, as long as they were supplied with it, they
lived together harmless; but no sooner was this withheld, than the
old ones, both male and female, devoured their young. Though all
are more or less carnivorous, they are not generally so blood-thirsty
as to devour each other or their young, when not supplied with
flesh. Two, placed together in a cage, and observed carefully for
several days, were never seen to fight, even when deprived of animal
food. I several times noticed that, when one of these would
pull a kernel of corn from the ear, his companion would also seize
it with his teeth, and thus each would endeavor to draw it from the
<span id="page95" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="95"/>
    </p>
  </section>
  
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
Junior synonym, now currently referred to by the binomial name <span class="taxon">Peromyscus leucopus</span> [Rafinesque, <time>1818</time>].</p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>