<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Wood Meadow-Mouse</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
  <link rel="pronunciation" type="application/pls+xml" href="pronunciation.pls"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="pmm.label">
  <span id="page102b" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="102b"/>
  <h1 id="pmm.label">Wood Meadow-Mouse</h1>
  <p class="subtitle">[<a href="plate12.xhtml#b">Plate <span title="twelve b">XII.b</span></a>]</p>
  <ul class="authoritylist">
    <li><span class="taxon">Arvicola scalopsoides</span> [Audubon and Bachman, <time>1841</time>]<sup><a href="#footnote.1" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[1]</a></sup></li>
  </ul>
  <section id="description" aria-labelledby="description.label">
    <p><strong id="description.label">Description</strong>.&#8212;<span role="list"><span role="listitem">Head and body of the adult male, in November, nearly 3&#189; inches long;</span>
  <span role="listitem">tail, nearly &#190; of an inch;</span>
  <span role="listitem">hind-foot, &#8541; of an inch.</span>
  <span role="listitem">Head, large;</span>
  <span role="listitem">snout, blunt;</span>
  <span role="listitem">ears, concealed by the fur;</span>
  <span role="listitem">eyes, very small;</span>
  <span role="listitem">fur on the back, soft, glossy and smooth;</span>
  <span role="listitem">hairs,<span role="list">
    <span role="listitem">plumbeous at the base,</span>
    <span role="listitem">broadly tipped with dark-brown on the back,</span>
    <span role="listitem">and slightly tipped with white and reddish-brown on the belly.</span>
  </span></span>
</span>
Young, color like that of the adult. This species is readily distinguished
from the other arvicolae found in this vicinity, by its
<span role="list">
  <span role="listitem">smaller size,</span>
  <span role="listitem">glossy fur,</span>
  <span role="listitem">large muzzle,</span>
  <span role="listitem">small eyes,</span>
  <span role="listitem">and very short tail.</span>
</span>
It is common in the woods in Northern Illinois and Southern Wisconsin, where it is less
abundant, however, than the two preceding. This is probably the species
mentioned under the name of
<span class="taxon">Arvicola riparius</span>, by <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Plummer, in Silliman’s
Journal, as existing in Wayne county, Indiana.</p>
  </section>
  <hr class="half" />
  <section id="account" aria-label="Species Account">
    <p>Unlike the two species last described, this, so far as I have
observed, lives exclusively in the woods, or in fields surrounded by
timber, though it becomes more numerous in the clearing and prefers
high ground. Its home, as noticed here, is under the leaves,
and its mode of life brings strongly to mind the
<span class="taxon">Sorex dekayi</span><sup><a href="#footnote.2" epub:type="noteref" role="doc-noteref">[2]</a></sup>,
with which, in fact, it is found in every locality in the woods where I
have seen that shrew. Its runways are similar to those of the
shrew; and I am inclined to think the tracks of the latter are much
used by it. It is probable that the arvicolae may drive off the
shrews, and take possession of their ready-made highways, as they
are very pugnacious, and apparently able to beat the other, their
eyes giving them much advantage over their sightless adversaries.
They always travel under the leaves, apparently; and, in turning
over logs, beneath which were their nests, I have observed that, in
endeavoring to escape, they ran <em>under</em> instead of <em>over</em> the leaves,
<span id="page103" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="103"/>
even where there were no paths; nor did they stop to hide in them;
but ran off to some distance. When placed on the snow, it attempts
to burrow into it, instead of running on top. This species is also
more diurnal in its habits than the
<span class="taxon">Arvicola austerus</span>.</p>
    <p>I have always found the nest of this arvicolae under logs or stumps,
whether that of the female, with her young, in summer, or pairs in
their winter-quarters in November. Those observed in fields always
burrow under stumps or fences, instead of in the open ground. The
nest in the woods is composed of leaves cut up into small fragments
with fine grass. It is not placed in the under-ground burrow, but
on the surface, being well protected by the log or roots above. The
burrow is extensive, but not exceeding the length of the log or
stump covering it. Numerous paths run in every direction from
the burrow, under the leaves; they occasionally pass beneath the
surface, and shallow holes are dug, as if in search of food, the earth
being thrown out of these, whereby they are easily distinguished
from the tracks of the shrew, which presses the earth aside in forming
its track. By following these paths, I have observed where the
meadow-mice fed upon the roots of grass and various other plants,
often digging down several inches for them; and I have in several
instances found the bark gnawed from the roots of briers, <abbr title="Et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>
Hickory-nuts, hazel-nuts, and acorns were also found partly eaten
in their tracks. The acorns of the burr-oak and white-oak formed
most of the stores collected in such burrows as I have examined.
In one instance, I found the nest of a pair of this species in autumn,
in part of a burrow occupied at the same time by chipmucks, and
in which the latter had collected large stores of acorns and nuts.</p>
    <p>This is the smallest of our rodents, and for its size, I know of
no mammal more pugnacious than the males, at least. I placed
one in a box with a specimen of <span class="taxon">Sorex dekayi</span>, which it at once
attacked. The shrew was courageous and never retreated, neither
did he attempt to pursue the other to any distance. The meadow-mouse
acted on the offensive, and made unprovoked attacks, the
cage being large enough for both. He approached the shrew
cautiously, and when within two or three inches sprang upon him,
biting and striking with his feet, and then jumping back quickly,
in fact fighting in the same manner as the
<span class="taxon">Arvicola austerus</span>. When
he came near, and the shrew made the first attack, the meadow-mouse
would rise upon his hind-feet, and strike with his fore ones,
and snap rapidly with his teeth. Had the fight been allowed to
continue, it is probable that the shrew would have been beaten; for,
though much the stronger, and doubtless able to kill the meadow-mouse
readily, if he could grapple with him, the latter was enabled,
by his sudden springs, to inflict severe wounds, and exhaust his
adversary, without being much hurt himself. The shrew constantly
uttered his sharp, bird-like twitter; but the meadow-mouse fought
in silence. This species, in fact, is always much more silent than
the two preceding. When hurt, however, it utters low cry, softer
and shorter than that of the
<span class="taxon">Arvicola austerus</span>. When a caged
<span id="page104" role="doc-pagebreak" aria-label="104"/>
specimen was teased, it would become enraged, and bite fiercely at
anything thrust at it.</p>
    <p>Caged specimens of this species show less inclination to burrow
than the two preceding. In eating, they do not hold the food up
from the ground, but grasp it in the fore-paws, as it lies upon the
surface, sitting meanwhile upon the hind-feet, yet resting in part
upon the fore ones also. Is not this posture the necessary result of
their inability to stand erect in their leaf-roofed highways? In digging,
the snout is much used to thrust aside the earth, and they
sometimes &#8220;root&#8221; with it, like hogs, in search of particles of
food slightly buried in the bottom of the cage, and often eat these
without taking them in their paws at all. My specimens were
fed upon acorns and corn, and the entire grain of the latter was
eaten. But they had all been taken in the woods, and could never
have seen this food before, and were doubtless ignorant of the
method adopted by their cultivated cousins, living in the prairie
corn-fields, which, with a very objectionable refinement of taste, eat
out only the germ, and thus destroy far more than they would by
eating the whole grain. My caged specimens refused to eat flesh of
any kind. This species, indeed, is probably less carnivorous than
the <span class="taxon">Arvicola austerus</span>.</p>
    <p>I am not informed as to the extent to which this meadow-mouse
is injurious here, but in timber-farms it is doubtless as great a pest&#8212;and
in the same manner&#8212;as the prairie species, when equally
abundant. Stumps left in fields form favorite retreats for them,
from which they are not easily dislodged.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="pipfrosch" aria-labelledby="pipfrosch.label">
    <h2 id="pipfrosch.label">Pipfrosch Press Taxonomy Notes</h2>
    <p><strong>Note:</strong> This section does not appear in the original article.</p>
    <p><span class="taxon">Arvicola scalopsoides</span> [Audubon and Bachman, <time>1841</time>] is now considered to be a junior synonym of
<span class="taxon">Microtus pinetorum</span> [Le Conte, <time>1830</time>]. Several subspecies are described, Illinois falls within the range of the subspecies
<span class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> <abbr>p.</abbr> scalopsoides</span> [Audubon and Bachman, <time>1841</time>] although many no longer recognize the validity of any subspecies within <span class="taxon"><abbr>M.</abbr> pinetorum</span>.</p>
    <p>This species is currently referred to using the common name &#8216;Woodland Vole&#8217;.</p>
    <p>For more information on the Woodland Vole, see:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Mammalian Species <abbr title="Number">&#8470;</abbr> 147: <a href="https://doi.org/10.1093/mspecies/147.1" title="Internet Resource">DOI:10.1093/mspecies/147.1</a></li>
      <li><abbr>ITIS</abbr> Report for <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=180314" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 180314</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="footnote" aria-label="Footnote">
    <hr/>
    <aside aria-label="Footnote 1" id="footnote.1" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p>[1]
The author did not specify the authority for <span class="taxon">Arvicola scalopsoides</span>. The correct authority of [Audubon and Bachman, <time>1841</time>] has been added.</p></aside>
    <aside aria-label="Author Footnote" id="footnote.2" epub:type="footnote" role="doc-footnote"><p><span data-epubtype="subparagraph">[2]
The identity of the binomial name <span class="taxon">Sorex dekayi</span> is not clear to me. That binomial is no longer valid but I have not found a reference pointing towards the currently used binomial name that it corresponds with.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
The author is clearly referencing a shrew. The genus <span class="taxon">Sorex</span> [Linnaeus, <time>1758</time>] is used for shrews and both DeKay as well as Audobon and Bachman referenced a shrew with the name &#8220;DeKay’s Shrew&#8221; (<span class="taxon">Sorex dekayi</span>) and the author also references the species as a shrew.</span>
<span data-epubtype="subparagraph">
My <em>suspicion</em> is that the shrew the author is referencing is probably <span class="taxon">Blarina brevicauda</span> [Say, <time>1823</time>; <a href="https://www.itis.gov/servlet/SingleRpt/SingleRpt?search_topic=TSN&amp;search_value=179967"><abbr>TSN</abbr> 179967</a>].</span></p></aside>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>